MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us
nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons & Dragons. Before we jump in tonight, we
have a few announcements we want to get through.
First up, we have a birthday today, we have my
wonderful wife, Marisha. It's her birthday today!
Happy birthday!
(cheering)
MARISHA: Thank you, thank you. Thank you to my
mother who birthed me. She should really be the
one who's getting thanked.
LAURA: Yes, she really should.
MARISHA: Yes.
LIAM: Still alive, mom.
SAM: Reenact it for us.
MARISHA: I'll leave that to Laura in a couple
months.
MATT: Happy birthday.
MARISHA: Thanks.
MATT: Next up, we have our two sponsors this
evening. First--
SAM: Two?
MATT: Yes, two!
SAM: I only prepared one. What's happening?
MATT: I'm doing the second one. You're fine. But
our first sponsor for the evening is our returning
friends at D&D Beyond. Sam?
SAM: D&D Beyond, everybody. (clears throat) D&D
Beyond is our fabulous sponsor, they're here every
week. They put these things on our iPads-- I mean,
our tablet devices that help us track our stats
and stuff, and they wanted us to let you know that
this week, Matt Mercer's gunslinger fighter
subclass is now available on D&D Beyond. In the
character builder, critters can begin creating
their version of Percy right now on D&D Beyond.
They actually already have started creating their
own versions of Percy and loading it with the
features that we've come love about Percy. I've
compiled a list. It's the Top Ten List of Percy
Features Being Added on D&D! Everyone, a little,
light drumroll if you could. Number ten: extra
long, pompous names. Number nine: skin so white it
claps on the ones and threes. Number eight: bags
containing gunpowder and Victor fingers. Number
seven: that feat where your dice always roll 20s
even though they're not cursed by a demonic
ritual. Number six: blue hair dye! Number five:
steampunk bifocals. Number four: giant bathtubs
that comfortably hold a female half-elf under the
water for 15 minutes. You can add these features
to your Percy. Number three: throat bubbles.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Wow.
(laughter continues)
SAM: Number two: wit and tact.
LIAM: Wait, what what what?
SAM: Wit and tact. And the number one thing being
added to the gunslinger class: knives.
MATT: Thank you, Sam. You guys can use the
gunslinger fighter archetype as well as the new
feat that goes along with it; that's on there as
well. Which anyone can take to learn firearms, be
better at firearms, even if you're not a
gunslinger, so check that out on the app. Thank
you guys at D&D Beyond for being awesome, and you
for supporting them and us. Of course, our second
sponsor for tonight, returning, our fun friends at
Obsidian with Pillars of Eternity 2: Deadfire,
which is finally out!
LIAM: I know, it's so exciting. It's so good, it's
so pretty, it sounds so good, it plays so good.
MATT: It's really good.
SAM: I got it working.
(laughter)
MATT: That was the best response.
SAM: I can move my guy now.
MATT: I was there when he got that text, we just
went (sputtering laughing). Oh my god.
SAM: I looked it up on Google first.
MATT: See, and he's already a step above most
people on the internet. Deadfire's out, super
excited, the voice sets and portraits of Vox
Machina are in the game for free DLC, on PC. It'll
be out for console later this year. If MetaCritic
doesn't lie, it's at 90 and climbing. I love it.
I'm so excited, I'm so glad people enjoy it, and
so glad we can be a part of it.
LIAM: I played today and I just got my first dose
of kaiju-god Taliesin, not regular-god Taliesin,
kaiju-god Taliesin. It's good.
TALIESIN: I haven't gotten there yet.
MATT: Laura's character and Marisha's character in
my party are starting to flirt and I'm like
(nervous sound). I don't know how I feel about
that. Of course, I made Gilmore. Marisha's
character was flirting with me at first and I was
like, "Nah, I got to shut this down, Gilmore's not interested."
MARISHA: (laughter) That's fair.
MATT: At least you two are getting together.
MARISHA: Just waiting for the other guys.
MATT: I get enough of this in real life. Happy
birthday. Also, we are heading back to GenCon,
guys! Our tickets went on sale earlier this week
for the live show in Indianapolis, you can find it
on Ticketmaster. The official GenCon panel is sold
out, but keep an eye on the GenCon website as
tickets that are relinquished may become available
as it goes on. They keep cycling through and as
things become available, they'll update it, so
keep an eye. We'll try and update you as soon as
we hear anything beyond that. But holy shit.
TRAVIS: If there are balcony seats for the live
show, do not be afraid of them, because that
balcony crew is raucous. Just being in that room
while the live madness is going on is something to
behold, so even if it's the back, if you want to
go, go.
LAURA: It was a really fun group in the audience
last time.
SAM: I'm going to hide some stuff up there.
LAURA: I like that.
SAM: We'll hide some stuff.
MATT: Why does it smell so funky back here?
TRAVIS: Why is there silly string coming out of
the balcony?
MATT: Scanlan strikes again. Looking forward to
seeing a bunch of you guys at GenCon. In the past
four weeks in our 826 initiative, we have raised
over $50,000 from the community, which is then
doubled by fantastic Mark K, we've made over
$100,000 to 826, so we can not thank you guys
enough for your amazing support. Huge thanks to
critter Mark Koro, of course, for being our
counter support for this, and being such an
amazing member of the community. Thank you. Thanks
to Wyrmwood Gaming and our friends at D&D Beyond
for their amazing support for the campaign to get
us where we are now. If you'd still like to
donate, you can go to 826LA.org/criticalrole.
We'll have more information soon about the
scheduling for my fireside chat, as well as the
production crew Reddit AMA, and Marisha's Honey
Heist soon, so stay tuned.
MARISHA: I need to start planning. Oh man.
MATT: Indeed.
MATT: Don't forget Twitch Prime. (singing) If you
have Amazon Prime you can connect it on your
Twitch and subscribe to a channel for free, there
you go.
TRAVIS: That was a good jingle, actually.
MATT: Thank you. I'll remember it never. Critical
Recap is available for those who have missed it
before the episode and you're watching this now
and you didn't see last episode. Why? But if you
need to real fast, pause this, or later, or go and
watch Critical Recap now, which our fantastic Dani
Carr gets you up to speed of what happened in last
week's episode. It's up on YouTube right now.
Talks Machina is every Tuesday at 7:00pm Pacific,
where our fantastic Brian W. Foster hosts our sit
down chat with members of the cast. This last week
apparently was off the chain between Ashley and Marisha.
MARISHA: Good times.
MATT: When everyone cries from laughing, it's a
good night, apparently.
LIAM: You face planted on the couch.
MARISHA: I've never seen Foster sprout tears like
that. That was amazing.
ASHLEY: You know you've got him when he has
projectile tears. It seems opposite of what should
be happening.
MATT: A special shout out to our friend,
PulloutKing, from that episode.
ASHLEY: PulloutKing, thanks for the laughs.
MATT: We have new d20s restocked?
LAURA: They're not new, but older d20s
SAM: They're used d20s.
LAURA: I'm pretty sure they're the special edition
ones. I haven't looked at the store, they're the
red set, I think.
MATT: The rare ones.
LAURA: The ones that were available at our live
shows before are in the store.
TRAVIS: Laura, would you consider selling used
dice that end up in the jail too often? Just
offload some of that shit.
SAM: I don't think the store can handle that many.
TALIESIN: I think if the dice know that they could
go to a kinder, gentler home.
LAURA: I think I may have enough dice to go to--
one for each and every critter.
LIAM: It's funny, you go and try to pet her dice
they shrink back, they shy away.
(squeaking)
LAURA: They're like barnacles!
MARISHA: Next charity drive we have you could
auction a few.
SAM: Charity drive?
ASHLEY: I was like: barnacles! She already said
that.
SAM: Guys, the birthday girl is trying to talk.
MARISHA: I'm sorry, never mind, it's passed. No, I
was thinking you could auction them off for
charity next time, next charity drive.
LAURA: I mean, yeah, charity.
(laughter)
MATT: I believe that's the last of our
announcements of the evening.
TRAVIS: Oh shit. A fucking troll, you guys!
MATT: Let's bring it in for tonight's episode of
Critical Role.
[click, TV static]
[groovy Critical Role theme]
MATT: Welcome back. Oh my god. Welcome back. Last
we left off: The Mighty Nein, upon clearing their
names, making some new friendships in the city and
taking some time for themselves in preparation for
the coming Harvest Close festival, found
themselves wandering through the streets of
celebration. They partook in a number of various
games of chance and skill, got some fine snacks
and foods, challenged themselves, got thrown by
their other party members, won some trinkets and
toys, and then ended up signing up to the Victory
Pit, the grand tournament that ends the Harvest
Close festival. You managed to catch a few phrases
off to the side of the initial lounge you were
signing up in, where you discovered that war had
been declared by the king on the eastern region of
Xhorhas, that information was to be held back
until the festival was over. You were held below
with the other competing teams, and then one by
one you were each presented into the center of the
Victory Pit tournament where each of you has to
battle a challenge of a creature or creatures in a
three-tiered structure. Whoever survives all three
bouts gets to share in the final pot prize.
Currently two of the other teams have been knocked
out, and it only remains to be you and one other.
You guys are up first. You're pulled into the
center and announced as The Mighty Nein's final
round. Knowing the Stubborn Stock is watching from
behind the distant doorways that lead into the
central arena, you all scattered about the sands
as the sun begins to get close to dusk, shouting
out your various plans and then abandoning them
last minute. You found places as these heaping,
heavy thuds start quaking the ground in arrival
before the door swings open. Out from behind it,
roaring, a frenzied, angry hill giant, complete
with pierced thorns jammed into each side of the
body to drive it to a point of absolute anger and
fury, comes bashing into the center of the arena,
knocks over one of the large pillars, and this is
where we begin. I need everyone to roll initiative.
TRAVIS: Let's try and talk to it.
LIAM: Just wear him down.
TRAVIS: Yeah, let's try and talk to him.
MARISHA: Almost a natural 20. Almost a 20!
TALIESIN: That's mildly adequate.
MATT: 25 to 20?
SAM: 23.
LIAM: 20.
MATT: 20 to 15?
LAURA: 19.
TRAVIS: (sobbing) No, far too calm.
MATT: 15 to ten?
MARISHA and TALIESIN: 14.
TRAVIS: Which one of you wants to go first?
MARISHA: I'll take it.
TALIESIN: I should take it because for now.
MARISHA: Molly'll take it.
TALIESIN: Make your life a little easier because I
can keep disadvantage for your turn.
MARISHA: Sure, yes.
TRAVIS: Eight. What'd you roll?
ASHLEY: Six. The fun buns!
LAURA: Brought it back.
MATT: All righty, friends. It finishes slamming
the large pillar into the ground and wields its
giant club over one shoulder, its other hand
reaching out for something and glancing over the
field to see what its quarry is. Nott, you're up
first.
SAM: Is the giant in melee? Would I get sneak
attack damage or no? He's not engaged with anybody
right now.
MATT: Right now, Fjord, you're hiding back there.
I think I shifted it.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: No, he is not currently engaged.
SAM: Okay, then I will shriek and I will run
towards Beau, full sprint.
ASHLEY: Full sprint ahead.
LAURA: Oh god, just right in it already. We're
just right in it.
MATT: By the way, guys, this finally came in
today.
LAURA: What is that?
SAM: It's north, east, west, south.
MATT: So you know where the north is, so you can
use that.
LAURA: Shut up. That's so cool.
MARISHA: Which way's north, by the way?
MATT: This way.
MARISHA: Okay, thank you.
MATT: The people who do Campaign Coins make that
now. Our friend, Deven Rue, who did our map for
the show, she's the one who designed it. I've been
waiting for it to come in. That's a point for you
guys, if you ever want to shout directions at me
of where you want to run, that's helpful.
LAURA: I love it.
MATT: You ran, full sprint towards Jester.
SAM: Sneak attack damage is so good, but I can't.
That thing can see me, I'm scared. I'm scared,
guys! I'm going to fire my crossbow. Ooh, it's a
two, it misses. I'm super scared.
MATT: It arcs off, you hear this distant (yelp) in
the audience way away.
TALIESIN: I was going to say, what was the number?
Because that thing's got to have a low AC. What's
the actual number?
SAM: Oh yeah, probably. Eight.
MATT: Yeah, no.
LAURA: He's got thick skin, I think.
MATT: Yeah, it's a pretty hardy physicality even
if it's a broad target to hit.
SAM: Then I will run back the way I came.
MATT: Same place you were before?
SAM: No, like behind Yasha, behind that pillar
over there, that wall.
LAURA: You said that's north?
MATT: This is north here.
LAURA: Towards you.
SAM: North always points to the star.
(laughter)
MATT: Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: I see this giant behemoth and I start
backing up to go west around the stone, under my
breath singing: We are the Mighty Nein, the Mighty
Nein, the Mighty Nein. And fire off a Fire Bolt as
I sneak behind it.
MATT: You're darting around the side.
LIAM: No, that is no good. That is a 13.
MATT: 13 just hits.
SAM: Okay, not too hard to hit.
MARISHA: 13 just hits, good to know.
MATT: It's a big target but it's pretty hardy.
LIAM: That is a one.
MATT: One point of fire damage. It hits and goes
(splat). It's less of a Fire Bolt and more of a
fire (fizzle). You see there's a patch on its
rather furry belly that no longer has hair. It's
very glaring.
LIAM: Ja. I am leaning, crouching against that
stone, hands on the wall, just listening and
working on keeping my gourd from rising.
MATT: Okay, good to know. Jester, you're up.
SAM: Go for it.
LAURA: Really?
SAM: Yeah, you so badly want to.
LAURA: I mean, I want to so bad. I want to use my
Spiritual Weapon!
MATT: Then use it!
LAURA: Okay, well, I will. I'm going to hold my
symbol in my hand and do like this because I've
seen Caleb do fancy things, and then I'm going to
make it.
MATT: Where would you like to place it?
LAURA: Right above his face!
MATT: (counting) 30 is where you can make it
appear.
LAURA: Really close to his face.
MATT: Let me see what the range is on it. What's
the range on the spell?
LAURA: I'm looking. 60!
MATT: 60! Yeah, you can do it, right over.
LAURA: Directly in front of his face, flat side
facing him, and then just poof!
MATT: Roll for attack, go for it. As Jester
releases her grip, this giant, heavy-looking but
gorgeous glittering lollipop apparates out of the
air, streaking down towards the goblin's face. Not
the goblin, the ogre's-- giant's face. It's been a
week.
LAURA: 16!
MATT: 16 hits, roll damage.
LAURA: That slipped out of my hand. It doesn't
count if it slips out of your hand. Ten points of
damage! That's my bonus. For my actual thing, can
I do a cantrip?
MATT: Yes, you can.
LAURA: Yeah! I'm going to Sacred Flame him! He's
got to roll dexterity over 14.
MATT: He rolled a 14, but has minus one dex.
SAM: Look at you, you're a killer.
LAURA: I'm a monster! Eight! Radiant damage.
MATT: Wunderbar. That finishes your turn,
Jester.
LAURA: Yes. The spiritual weapon's right here, on
his face.
MATT: You got it.
ASHLEY: He's blinded now.
MATT: Now it's the giant's turn. After being
slammed in the face with this lollipop and the
flames, is like (angry grunting). Ducks out of the
way as it slams down on its head, grabs the side
of the pillar, which breaks. The pillar, as it
fell over, shattered into four or five pieces,
grabs and picks up a single piece. The only one
that it paid attention to right now is the one
that lit its stomach on fire. It takes this thing
and lobs it in your direction.
LIAM: I'm behind the stone pressed to the back of
it though, presently, correct?
MATT: You do have cover. It's three-quarters
cover. What's your armor class, currently?
LIAM: It is at 14 at the moment.
MATT: That adds plus five to your AC, so it's 19
on this attack. That's still a 21 to hit though,
so it still hits you. 13 plus eight, sorry.
LIAM: Well bring it on, here we go.
MATT: As this chunk of the pillar goes flying
across the arena towards you, it hits the top of
the wall, which breaks, and a good foot and a half
section of it, shatters as it slams into your chest.
LIAM: What did it do, it did to 19? I can do a
reaction, can't I?
MATT: You can.
LIAM: I cast Shield.
MATT: All right! There you go. As you see it slam
into the wall above you and go swinging, you throw
up the shield and all of a sudden there's a spark
of arcane energy as it gets deflected inches off
of the top of Caleb's head before slamming into
the side of the actual tournament arena, hitting
the stone, causing it to crack, and people in the
front area (gasp).
LIAM: What did he roll?
TRAVIS and MARISHA: 21.
LIAM: Still hits. Because that only gets me up to
19.
MATT: You were 19 because you had three-quarters
cover, because you were behind the wall. You had
14 plus five because you were behind--
LIAM: Okay, good.
MATT: At this moment, the absolute fear kicks into
his eyes. The entity is going to charge forward.
Right at that point, it stops and turns and sees,
out of the corner of its eye, Fjord hiding behind
the wall. That's going to be its turn. Molly,
you're up.
SAM: Turn into water!
TRAVIS: (blubbing sounds) Surprise, bitches!
LAURA: Who's up?
TALIESIN: I'm up. How dumb do I feel like being?
LAURA: I feel like I'm already sweating.
ASHLEY: I forgot to go to the bathroom. I'm
wiggling.
TALIESIN: If it's turned towards Fjord, then I'm
going to run around to the opposite side of it.
MATT: Okay, to there? Is it for flanking bonus?
TALIESIN: For flanking bonus. I'm going to take
two slices into his leg.
MATT: Go for it.
LAURA: Two shots in his leg!
TALIESIN: See, I didn't do it, and then you just
went ahead and did it. I'm working so hard not to
do it. What's the flanking bonus, by the way?
MATT: We've used it occasionally, but it works
against you guys as well. If you manage to get
directly across from a creature with an ally in
melee, you get advantage on the attack.
TALIESIN: All right, so this is advantage on the
attack.
MATT: You were ranged last campaign so it didn't
come into play very often.
TALIESIN: No, not very often. I was trying to
remember. I'm not feeling good about that one.
Here we are. That's a 25 to hit.
MATT: That hits.
TALIESIN: I assume I don't get the extra bonus for
radiant.
MATT: No, he's not undead.
TALIESIN: (counting) Eight points of damage.
MATT: Eight points of damage for the first
strike.
TALIESIN: Then the next one is a natural 20!
That's 14 points of damage.
MATT: The first strike you carve up alongside its
blubbery, thick belly that's flipping over this
piece of cloth that it has matted around its
midsection. As you cut through, it buckles a
little bit on that one side of the leg and you use
that moment to cut behind its thigh, right down
below where the Achilles tendon is. As you cut
across, blood spatters across the sand and (yelling).
TALIESIN: All right!
MATT: That's your turn?
TALIESIN: Yeah, I'm holding.
MATT: He's going to use a legendary action.
LAURA: A legendary?! He's legendary?!
MATT: He's a frenzied solo, yeah.
TRAVIS: He's a frenzied solo? What does that
mean?
MATT: He's going to go ahead and use his Furious
Smash.
TALIESIN: Is he going to attack me?
MATT: He's going to attack, yeah, for slashing
him.
TALIESIN: I'm definitely using Blood Maledict
then, at full use. That was not good, that was
bad. All right, that's all right.
MATT: Okay, so he has disadvantage on the attack.
TALIESIN: Yeah, and the next one.
MATT: That's still a 13 plus eight.
TALIESIN: Yeah, that hits.
MATT: As you slam and slice into the back of the
leg, he angrily turns back and swings down towards
you and his eyes go black. There's a brief shake,
it's still a massive club and you try to move out
of the way but it's too fast, slamming onto you,
knocking you onto the ground. Your wind is knocked
out of you and your whole world goes dazed and
white for a moment. This is going to be 26 points
of bludgeoning damage.
TALIESIN: I'm out.
SAM: What?
TRAVIS: Wow! Fuck! Yes! Oh man!
SAM: You wanted to.
LAURA: I underestimated the amount of damage he
would do to us.
MATT: That was a really good damage roll. It
reactively slams into Molly with the club. As the
dust settles, Molly is not moving on the ground,
probably pushed about an inch or two into the dirt
and sand. There's a crater where the head of the
club had impacted, and Molly is not moving.
LIAM: That really hurt, Charlie!
MATT: Beau, your turn.
LAURA: His name is Charlie.
MARISHA: Okay, I feel like this has changed the
plan that I had.
SAM: Her plan was to hit Molly. It was a weird
plan.
TALIESIN: He has disadvantage on his next attack
as well.
MARISHA: Fjord, I feel like I should get up
there.
TRAVIS: I'm just saying, this is a last man
standing kind of thing.
MARISHA: You're the only one there.
TRAVIS: That's okay. Think of the team!
MARISHA: All right. Just this one time, though.
I'm going to throw a throwing star.
MATT: You're going to throw a throwing star? Okay,
go ahead.
MARISHA: Natural 20.
(cheering)
MARISHA: (singing) Happy birthday to me! Well,
that was the world's shittiest die roll, though.
No wait, I only get 1d4, right? It's just a d4 plus
my bonus?
MATT: It's 1d4 times two, plus your bonus.
MARISHA: Okay, sorry. That's a better roll.
(counting) Ten damage?
MATT: Okay, ten damage!
TALIESIN: Way too happy about that ten damage.
MARISHA: I don't get another one, right? It's just
one action.
MATT: No, because unarmed attack, it's for the
outside, yeah.
MARISHA: Okay, and I'm going to move.
MATT: You throw one of these spindly jagged star
darts on the side. You throw it through the air
and it sinks into its stomach. You don't even see
where it impacted except for a small red line
where it's beginning to bleed from where it carved
into its belly.
MARISHA: I hit him! Then that's it, that's my
turn.
MATT: You're going to stay there?
MARISHA: I'm going to stay there.
MATT: That finishes Beau's turn, Fjord, you're
up.
TRAVIS: I'm going to use my bonus action to cast
Hexblade's Curse on this giant. Hyuck Hyuck! I'm
going to summon my Wastehunter falchion,
two-handed, and I'm going to cut into his thigh.
LAURA: Isn't your Hex still up from the last game,
too?
TRAVIS: No. It was up until the second round and
then that was it.
TALIESIN: Also does that mean that his reaction
has been burned by the legendary action? Is the
legendary action a separate thing from--
MATT: Legendary actions are different from
reactions.
TALIESIN: All right, so he's still got a reaction.
Just checking.
TRAVIS: 25.
MATT: That hits. As the large falchion appears,
curved and jagged, you see this splash of seawater across
the side of the giant as its eyes are now set back
on Fjord. At this point, the curse sets in, the
blood spatters on the ground begin to come up into
these black forms and adhere to his legs.
TRAVIS: 13 points of damage plus two for the
Hexblade's Curse.
MATT: 15, nice.
TRAVIS: With my speed, I'm going to run to the
north as far as 30 will carry me.
LAURA: He's going to hit you.
TRAVIS: I know, he's going to hit me next turn
anyway.
MATT: 30 will get you there, and he gets an attack of
opportunity against you. As you strike it in the side
and you go to run, you get a fair distance, but the
reach with that club is just far enough where it
doesn't necessarily need it. As you go charging
forward-- he has disadvantage because of that.
That makes it a 13.
TRAVIS: Armor class 15!
MATT: You hear the (booming) from behind as it
slams into the ground. The earth leaves your foot
for a second and you land again. You make your way
to the edge. Well done, that ends your turn. That
brings us to Yasha.
ASHLEY: Can I make it over east? Let's go east,
near his butt. How far can I get?
MATT: You can get there.
LAURA: Hit him in his butt!
ASHLEY: I'm going to hit him in the arse with the
Magician's Judge. Reckless.
MATT: Reckless? Go for it.
ASHLEY: 15.
MATT: 15 hits.
LAURA: Does that mean he's going to get advantage
on you now?
ASHLEY: Yeah.
SAM: But wait, you get to dispel magic!
ASHLEY: Oh shit, that's so bad.
MATT: Double ones.
TRAVIS: Are they really? Double unos?
ASHLEY: Double unos. Five points of damage!
MATT: As you go rushing by, you weren't paying
attention for the last impact, and you see out of
the corner your eye Molly in the ground, jammed
in and unconscious, bleeding out, and that's just
enough, being not in an enraged state, to
viscerally affect you and shakes you just enough
for you to swing the blade. It hits the leg, but
it wasn't enough actual impact to carve into the flesh.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: That ends your turn, Yasha. Nott, you're
up.
SAM: (sighs) Do we heal, or do we get this guy?
TRAVIS: You don't heal. Hit him.
SAM: No, I mean Molly.
TRAVIS: Fuck Molly!
SAM: All right, I'll clock around the corner and
fire off a shot.
MARISHA: He has potentially three rounds until he
dies.
TRAVIS: I love Molly, but fuck.
TALIESIN: I don't.
SAM: 20 to hit.
MATT: That hits. You can roll damage.
SAM: Okay.
MATT: He is adjacent to Yasha, so it is sneak
attack damage.
SAM: Ew, terrible.
LAURA: Oh my god! What's with these rolls!?
ASHLEY: We're going to die.
LAURA: No, don't say it.
ASHLEY: We're going to live.
SAM: Nine points of damage.
TRAVIS: Not as convincing.
MATT: Hey it adds up, guys. It's cool. As you duck
around the corner, you release the bolt. It sinks
into the chest area and looks around in the direction
trying to find you. You still have 20 feet of
movement.
MARISHA: You don't have Healing Word or anything
anymore?
SAM: No, I'm not a--
LAURA: Nobody has.
MATT: It's not a rogue thing, unfortunately.
SAM: You can perform one of these (mumbling) use a
bonus action to control the hand. Fuck. Okay, I
can't cast Mage Hand as a bonus action with
Legerdemain or whatever, right? I can only use it.
Okay, then I will fire again, why not? Natural
20.
(cheering)
TRAVIS: So casual, that's a good--
LAURA: Ah!
SAM: Does that double my dice?
LAURA: Yeah!
SAM: Plus that's 16 points of damage.
LAURA: Nice.
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay.
MATT: The first one hit, and he starts growling,
and looks right in your direction. You go
(screams), fire a second one that goes right into
one of its eyes and starts roaring. It gets caught
right up inside. It doesn't quite pierce the
eyeball, but it gets up into the socket.
LAURA: (groans) That would suck so hard.
MATT: It's scratching at its face angrily.
LAURA: Good thing he's already frenzied.
SAM: Then movement to clock right back around that
corner of the--
MATT: Right there?
SAM: Yeah, of the structure. Yeah, right there.
MATT: Okay. That's your turn, Nott.
SAM: Yep.
MATT: Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: I was considering going out there, but I'm
not going to do it. I'm going to bend around the
side and fire off another Fire Bolt at it. At
Charlie. That is a 12 to hit.
MATT: That does not hit, unfortunately. It just
misses. As you see once again, Molly on the ground
and Yasha barely making an impact. Nott gets a
couple good hits off, and you try to fire.
Unfortunately, as he pulls back to grasp the face,
the Fire Bolt goes wide past where the head
previously was.
LIAM: Yeah, I'm going to use my movement to back
up behind that column.
MATT: There?
LIAM: Ja.
MATT: That would put you about there. That ends
your turn, Caleb?
LIAM: Ja.
MATT: Jester, you're up.
LAURA: Okay. Molly, I'll get you as soon as he
moves. Okay? So that he doesn't hit me. Okay?
TALIESIN: (humming)
SAM: (strained) I'm dead.
LAURA: I'm going to move Spiritual Weapon around,
and I'm going to use this side. I'm going to smack
him right in his funny bone.
MATT: Okay. As the hand is grasping at where it
got shot in the eye, it goes right for the back of
the elbow.
LAURA: Yeah! That hits. Then 1d8 plus four. That's
cocked. Yeah! 12 points of damage.
MATT: 12 points of damage.
ASHLEY: Yes!
MATT: As it hits, (impact) (pained groan) He's
shaking the hand as it's going numb. The one eye
is half shut. Going (pained groans).
LAURA: While he's shaking it off, I'm going to use
my bonus action to Toll the Dead!
MATT: You mean your action. Because you already
used your bonus action.
LAURA: I'm going to use my action to Toll the
Dead!
SAM: I was thinking about you.
LAURA: He's going to have to roll a wisdom of 14.
MATT: Wisdom of 14. Natural 19, sorry.
LIAM: (farcical Czech accent) Two wild and crazy
clerics.
LAURA: Bullshit. So he saw me. I'm going to jump
down behind, north side. Northwest side, right in
the corner there. I'm going to go (small squeak)
and try to not get hit.
MATT: That ends your turn. It's now the giant's
turn. As Yasha has just torn into the side, it's
going to turn back to you and is going to double
club attack you.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: It has advantage on each.
ASHLEY: That's so true.
MATT: Because she did Reckless.
ASHLEY: Because I did Reckless like a ding-dong.
LAURA: So every attack against you is--
ASHLEY: Yeah. I'm dumb.
MATT: The first one is a 25.
ASHLEY: Well that definitely hits. I'm probably
going to be unconscious.
LAURA: No.
MATT: Natural 20, okay.
TRAVIS: Oh no.
MATT: The first hit is--
ASHLEY: I don't know why I did Reckless. I'm
learning, I should have waited.
MATT: 23 points of damage, bludgeoning damage,
from the first hit. (whack) You put your hands up,
and you put the blade up to catch it, it slams
into it and pulls the shoulder out of the socket
and pushes you down into the dirt. As you push
off, the club goes up once more and then (whack).
LAURA: 23 was not the critical.
SAM: Not the critical?!
TALIESIN: That was not the critical.
SAM: She could be perma-dead right now.
MATT: I rolled an eight, seven, and a five.
That's--
ASHLEY: Am I perma-dead?
MATT: That's 43 points of damage.
ASHLEY: How many?
MATT: 43.
ASHLEY: Okay.
SAM: What's your total?
LIAM: What's your max?
LAURA: She's got 40 something hit points.
MATT: You have to go negative your max score.
TALIESIN: Which you do not do.
LAURA: Which you don't do.
TALIESIN: So you're just unconscious.
ASHLEY: I'm just unconscious.
SAM: Just super-duper unconscious.
TRAVIS: That was pretty close, I think.
ASHLEY: Is that right?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
SAM: Whoa.
TALIESIN: You're out.
LAURA: You're just unconscious.
MATT: With the second slam, Yasha partially
deflects the first impact and then vanishes in the
second one. Right there next to Molly, as the dust
clears, you see Yasha, unmoving, her legs up in
the air, as the rest of her torso is pushed down
into the dirt, and the rest of the ground is
covered over, where you can see the back of her
shoulders, and the back of her head, and the rest
of it is dust settling. She's not moving either.
LAURA: Shit. You came close to perma-death.
TALIESIN: Yeah, but not. That almost--
TRAVIS: (laughs) J-E-L-L-O!
MARISHA: I'm watching people get squashed in front
of me. Freaking kill box.
LAURA: Were you still big, too?
LIAM and ASHLEY: No.
LAURA: Okay.
LIAM: It's a quick thing.
MATT: I think at this point-- yeah, because you're
the one who shot it twice in the eye, and it saw
you duck behind. (counting)
TRAVIS: Stick and move.
MARISHA: That's my thing.
MATT: You watch as it steps over the wall. "Tiny
thing!" After it smashes Yasha, it doesn't even
care anymore and there's a little bit of foam at
the corner of the mouth. The blood's trailing down
its face from where the bolt entered. That's going
to end the giant's turn. Molly, you're up. Molly?
Molly.
LIAM: Tal.
MARISHA: Molly.
TALIESIN: Yeah?
MATT: Molly, make a death saving throw.
TALIESIN: Oh, I don't have to. I get shocked from
my-- the chest. The heart locket sparks and--
MATT: Oh, that's right.
TRAVIS: The what?
SAM: What, you're back up?
LAURA: He bought that locket.
MATT: What are the effects of the locket again?
TALIESIN: What?
TALIESIN: Ready for this? It's really cool.
LIAM: Full HP.
TALIESIN: No. When you wear this pendant, you
stabilize whenever you are dying at the start of
your turn. In addition, whenever you roll hit dice
to regain hit points, the number of hit points--
MATT: Yeah. So you stabilize. You're still
unconscious.
TALIESIN: I'm unconscious, but I'm breathing.
MATT: But you're not bleeding out.
TALIESIN: I'm just (deep breath).
MATT: There you go.
LAURA: Yasha, however--
MATT: Beau, your turn.
MARISHA: He's looking at Nott pretty hard?
MATT: Yeah. He's ready to smash the little
goblin.
MARISHA: Okay, Beau is going to run and flank with
Nott over here onto also the northwest side.
MATT: Over there? Flanking would be on the
opposite side.
MARISHA: I have to be on the opposite side.
LIAM: Yeah, you'll get advantage.
MARISHA: No, I want to go in front of him, where I
can get his attention. The northwest side.
MATT: Right here?
MARISHA: Yeah. I'm going to point at his dick, and
I'm going to go: Tiny thing! Then for my action,
I'm going to take the dodge action.
MATT: Okay, so your bonus action is to say "Tiny
thing."
MARISHA: Huh?
MATT: Your bonus action is to say "Tiny thing"
towards his dick.
MARISHA: Yeah. I say: Tiny thing! You tiny thing!
MATT: Go ahead and make an intimidation check.
MARISHA: To insult his penis size?
MATT: Yes, that is exactly what you're doing.
MARISHA: Okay.
LIAM: You have to intimidate his dick.
TRAVIS: That didn't--
MATT and LAURA: It landed.
MARISHA: Well, it's a natural one. Well, the
second one was a one. First one was an eight.
Neither were good.
MATT: He seems to think you're agreeing with him
with regards to Nott. "I know! Tiny thing!"
MARISHA: So I didn't get his attention?
MATT: No. That's your turn. Fjord, you're up.
You're in the middle of the field and you see both
Yasha and Molly crushed into the ground. This
little lollipop is (flittering) in the air
behind.
TRAVIS: Lovely. Yeah, I'm going to use Eldritch
Blast. Shoot across the arena, 120 feet. Try and
hit him.
MATT: All right. You move into the space here?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: You can see him over the wall.
TRAVIS: That is a 16 plus six, 22.
MATT: That'll hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
TRAVIS: That is 12 plus two, 14 points of Eldritch
Blast damage.
MATT: Nice! That's a good hit. (impact) Off the
side of the shoulder. You can watch where the
section, where the skin used to be is now exposed
muscle. Where it's burned off, the outer layer of
the body.
TRAVIS: Can I use the rest of my speed to move
behind the column, so that I'm hiding behind the
column?
MATT: Sure.
TALIESIN: Was that with the Hex?
MATT: With the additional Hex damage, right?
SAM: Hex damage?
TRAVIS: What?
MATT: That was with the additional damage from
the--
TRAVIS: With the additional d6, yeah.
MATT: That ends Fjord's turn. Yasha, I need you to
make a death saving throw.
ASHLEY: Okay. Do I add anything?
MATT: Nope.
ASHLEY: A seven.
MATT: That's a fail. You failed your first death
saving throw.
ASHLEY: (gasps) Okay.
MATT: At the end of Yasha's turn, the giant is
going to use his legendary action. He has one
legendary action. Trying to do a club attack
against you, Nott.
MARISHA: No!
LAURA: He has only one legendary action for the
whole fight?
MATT: Once every round.
LAURA: No.
MATT: That's a 19. What's your armor class?
SAM: That hits.
MARISHA: I'm sorry. I should have been more
explicit about his insulting his penis size.
MATT: 19 points of bludgeoning damage.
SAM: Yikes.
MATT: As it slams down, it hits you, and pushes
you into the wall. You're flattened against the
stone which quakes. On the opposite side of it, it
cracks and (stones scattering) off the back. You
hear this squeak sound as Nott is crushed between
the club and the wall.
TRAVIS: I'll kill him! Not Nott.
SAM: It didn't work.
TALIESIN: You have to hit the confirm button.
SAM: Damn it. Okay, that's not good.
MATT: It's your turn.
SAM: My turn?
MATT: Yes.
SAM: I will look up at the giant man who just hit
me and I will take out a tiny piece of pastry and
let it crumble to the ground and look up at him
with fear in my voice say: Why don't-- (sighs) why
don't goblins eat court jesters? Because they
taste funny.
MATT: He looks very confused in the middle of his
foaming frenzy.
LAURA: Behind the wall I start laughing.
MATT: "Jester?"
SAM: I will cast Tasha's Hideous Laughter.
MATT: Oh, shit. (laughs) What's the save on that?
SAM: 13.
MATT: But what is it? Is it wisdom?
SAM: Yeah.
MATT: That is a natural 17 minus one, 16.
SAM: Oh.
MARISHA: Shit.
SAM: Why isn't this working?
ASHLEY: He's rolling well.
LAURA: He's rolling really well.
MATT: I'm rolling really well. I'm so sorry,
guys.
SAM: Can I please get the changes to take? Yes,
okay. Okay, that sucks. I will bonus action
disengage!
LAURA: Yay! Run away really far.
SAM: I will run away! Just the maximum amount of
running away I can do which is only 30 feet.
Towards Caleb, to the north and if I can get
behind that pillar.
LAURA: Don't group!
MATT: You can get there.
LAURA: Don't group up.
SAM: Other side, possibly?
MATT: If you wanted to go around that way, you
could.
SAM: All right.
MATT: We'll say yeah. That'll put you right there.
Okay, that ends your turn. Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: This is a long shot, but I have no way of
damaging him. I'm going to pull out some sand out
of my pocket and mutter a few arcane words and trail
it in front of me and cast Sleep back behind him
here so it does not touch Beauregard.
MATT: Go ahead and roll your 5d8.
LIAM: Ja.
MATT: Go for it and tell me what the total is.
LIAM: Ja, I know. This is probably not going to
work, but I can't hurt him. Fuck. Good, better.
23.
MATT: 23? You watch as the large giant, (groans)
(slower groan).
TRAVIS: What?
MATT: Steps back and hits the pillar behind him.
It cracks and tilts to the side. Catches him
(grunts). Falls to both knees and eventually hits
the ground. This loud, heavy snore.
TRAVIS: Oh, shit!
MARISHA and LAURA: Do we win?
MATT: He's just unconscious.
LAURA: Yeah, but does that mean we win? He's on
the ground!
MATT: You shout this out?
MARISHA: Huh?
MATT: You're shouting this out as this is
happening?
LAURA: Yeah.
MARISHA: Do we win?!
MATT: They're all waiting for a moment.
SAM: Go heal Yasha!
LAURA: Oh, we have to wait, it's like turns.
MATT: No one's called the match yet.
MARISHA: Fuck!
SAM: Go heal Yasha!
LAURA: It's my turn now.
MATT: It is your turn, yes.
LIAM: We're going round by round?
MATT: Correct.
LIAM: Don't touch the giant.
MATT: Any movement, Caleb?
LIAM: Yeah, I will start moving towards Molly and
Yasha as far as I can get. I call out, medium
volume, not to the crowd but to my friends: That
wasn't even supposed to work.
TRAVIS: Sand.
MARISHA: You did good, Sandman.
MATT: Jester, you're up.
LAURA: I'm going to run over to Yasha.
MATT: (counting) You can't quite get there.
LAURA: Shit. Could I have reached Molly?
MATT: You could have reached Molly, yes.
LAURA: Okay, then I'll go to Molly first. Sorry,
Yasha.
ASHLEY: That's okay.
LAURA: I'm going to--
MATT: Well, actually if you were here, you could
have gotten to there.
LAURA: I could have gotten to Yasha? Okay, then
I'm going to-- because she's dying. I'm going to
use Cure Wounds on her. My last spell, y'all. That
is 1d8.
TRAVIS: That's all right, you're going to wake up,
and you're going to fucking go apeshit.
LAURA: Ten points of healing for you.
ASHLEY: I'll take it. Oh, thank you.
I add that here?
LAURA: And you're up! Then for my bonus action,
I'm going to send my Spiritual-- oh, no.
SAM: You can do whatever you want.
LAURA: No, I can't-- if I touch him, he wakes up.
LIAM: Yeah, don't touch him.
SAM: You can get it over there.
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to bring my Spiritual
Weapon over to him.
MATT: You can move it 20 feet there.
LAURA: I can move it 60 feet.
MATT: Well, the range is 60 feet, but as a bonus
action it moves 20.
LAURA: I see, okay.
TALIESIN: That's why I was like, get it closer.
MATT: Next, the giant's turn. It stays unconscious
for the duration until something hits it. Yeah, so
it's a minute.
LIAM: Until we touch it, so we need to get in a
Goodfellas circle around it to decide who's going
to beat the shit out of him, and don't touch it
before that moment.
LAURA: We have a whole minute?
LIAM: Caleb says. Yeah.
MATT: Potentially, guys, here, figure out what
your plan is until someone touches it.
LAURA: I can heal Molly while that's going on,
then.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
LAURA: Okay, I'm going to give Molly a healing
potion.
TRAVIS: He doesn't roll to wake up or anything?
MATT: No, he doesn't. He stabilizes.
LIAM: I'm going to move back by where Fjord is
right now, behind that column.
MARISHA: Me and you take the head, maybe we can--
MATT: Moving which one?
LIAM: Stand me by Fjord, to the north.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: Yeah.
SAM: I'm going to take a healing potion.
MATT: Okay.
LAURA: 2d4, I think I roll it.
TALIESIN: Does she roll the healing potion if I
take it, or do I roll it?
MATT: It doesn't matter who rolls it, really.
TALIESIN: Okay, because I was curious if my locket
gives me-- does it count as my hit dice or no?
MATT: Well, healing potion isn't hit dice. Hit
dice is only when you're taking a short rest.
LAURA: That's good. Seven plus two, so nine points
of healing.
TALIESIN: Okay.
ASHLEY: Thank you, Jester.
TALIESIN: Thank you.
LAURA: You're welcome, I'm sorry it's kind of a
weak thing, though.
ASHLEY: I give her an awkward side hug.
LAURA: (gasps) Thank you. I give you a big waist
hug back.
ASHLEY: Oh.
TALIESIN: I'm going to crawl behind there, and at
the very least I can--
MATT: Behind where?
TALIESIN: To the west, behind that rock right
there. I can, at the very least, keep trying to
give him disadvantage on at least one attack.
LAURA: I'm going to go northeast.
MATT: Where, like over here?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: Anybody else?
MARISHA: Yasha and I are going to flank his head.
LIAM: I'll form the head.
MATT: Okay, so you're going here, and Yasha's
going here, is that what you're doing?
MARISHA: Yeah, we want to both try and get him in
the head.
ASHLEY: I want to put points down on his--
MATT: Well, you can't both go for the head, if
you're flanking. Either you can both get by the
head--
MARISHA: That's what I'm saying. We flank his
head.
MATT: Oh I see.
MARISHA: Sorry. I used poor language. We're both
by his head.
MATT: That's okay. All right.
SAM: Then I'll walk around the other side of the
pillar so I get a good clean shot. Am I within 30
feet? I want to be within 30 feet.
MATT: Within 30 feet, you would be there.
LAURA: Oh god.
SAM: (crossbow loading) Ready to go.
MATT: Who's taking the first shot?
LAURA: Then as soon as his eyes start to flutter
open, right?
LIAM: Whoever hits big hit first.
TALIESIN: Or also, because he'll get the one
legendary, but other than that, it's whatever we
can get the fullest round.
LIAM: Whoever can do the most damage with one
attack should go first.
MATT: Who's attacking first?
LAURA: Who's going first?
ASHLEY: I feel like you could do the most damage.
LAURA: Do it! Go, Beau!
MARISHA: Okay. I look at Yasha and I'll go down
first. Right after me. Okay, ready? I'm going to aim
right for his other eye socket, the other one that
Nott hit, and come down right in the middle, try
and gore his head out.
MATT: Go for a roll. It's a melee attack, you have
advantage because he's unconscious.
MARISHA: Please don't fuck up on a sleeping guy.
14 and 15.
MATT: Okay. It's an auto-crit, because he's
unconscious.
LAURA: (gasps) Auto-crit!
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: It's with your staff.
MARISHA: Oh god, it's a one.
MATT: Aw. Two damage, plus--
MARISHA: Plus four, so six damage. That sucks.
LAURA: Oh, that is painful.
MATT: As you slam down, it hits right off the
ocular socket, and skids off the skull, (growl)
the eye shoots open, the other one still swollen
from the shot earlier, opens as well. (roaring)
MARISHA: I take my bonus action and Three Stooges
style, go poke, right in his eye. That's a natural
18.
MATT: You still get advantage because he's prone.
MARISHA: Okay, let me see if I get that crit. No, 18
though.
TRAVIS: Damn it, that would be great. Crit eye
poke!
MARISHA: God, a one again. Five damage. Lot of
crappy damage rolls.
MATT: Poof, right in the eye. (roaring) The eye
closes instinctually, and the arms begin to flail,
as it's trying to--
SAM: Are we allowed to attack, or no?
MATT: No, because that's the end of Beau's turn,
now it's Fjord's turn.
TRAVIS: Right.
MATT: At the end of Beau's turn, it's going to go
ahead and use its recovered legendary action to--
LAURA: Can you run away before he can get an
opportunity of attack on you?
TALIESIN: Technically he hasn't had a-- oh, no, he
did, because it's a whole round back, never mind.
MATT: It's been a number of rounds.
TALIESIN: I'm working every bloody angle I can
think of.
SAM: We weren't holding our action for when they--
I guess we never said it.
MATT: You didn't declare it.
SAM: Oh, fuck. I thought it was implied, we were
just waiting for it to wake up.
MARISHA: I thought you said, who's going to attack
first, we were going to Goodfellas it. We were
going to do that.
MATT: Okay, well, from now on if you're going to
hold your action, please specify that. Those who
were nearby needed to hold an action, that would
be you, Molly.
MARISHA: Can I then move and try and jump over him
so I then flank him with Yasha? Can I use my
movement to get to the other side?
MATT: No, because if you guys were holding your
action to the trigger of you attacking, then
they're all going before you do that.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: Cool. Take your turns.
TALIESIN: I'm going to go ahead and say, (demonic
voice) You got hit in the face with a piece of
lollipop! I'm going to attempt to do four psychic
damage and give him--
MATT: That's a 15. 16 minus one, yeah.
TALIESIN: (sigh) Will you roll under 15
eventually? Okay.
MATT: I know, I've been rolling really fucking
well tonight, I'm sorry!
LIAM: You gave him the die.
TALIESIN: I know.
MATT: It's also a DC 10, but yeah. All right.
SAM: 23 to hit.
MATT: You have disadvantage because he's prone.
SAM: 22 to hit.
MATT: Okay. Still hits.
SAM: That is 13 points of damage.
MATT: 13 points of damage? How do you want to do
this?
(cheering)
SAM: Trying not to hit Yasha or Beau, I would love
the bolt to go through its belly as far as it can go.
LAURA and SAM: Right in the belly button.
MATT: As it begins to thrash about, its one hand
hits the ground, kicking up all this dust and
sand. The other club comes back, using it to get
up off its feet, it looks like it's ready to swing
out towards Yasha and Beau, who's just finished
slamming into the creature. At that moment, you
see the exposed belly that already has gashes in
it from the wound, and you wait and release right
for the opening. As it sinks in, it stands up
anyway, and you watch as blood begins to pour out.
You hit something major, and it's starting to
bleed out and it--
LAURA: I did not expect that to happen!
MATT: Takes a swing, and at this point there's
already blood draining out, and the swing goes
wide, hits the ground, falls back onto its butt,
and proceeds to slowly go back to sleep forever.
LAURA and TRAVIS: Forever.
TALIESIN: (whisper) Shh. Go to sleep.
SAM: Do we win yet?
MATT: At which point there's a pause, this awkward
quiet before the entire audience at once goes
(cheering).
LAURA: I use my Thaumaturgy to start chanting,
Nott, Nott, Nott, Nott!
ALL except SAM: (chanting) Nott, Nott, Nott,
Nott!
SAM: No, don't draw any attention to me, no, don't
see me, no!
TRAVIS: I look over at Caleb and say; No big deal,
right?
LIAM: I pull my hood further down over my face.
MATT: The cheers continue as the large goliath
steps out again with his tattoos and spiked armor,
and he goes, "There we have it, the third round
completion of The Mighty Nein! But one more fight
"stands. Congratulations!" You guys are then led
over to the holding area off to the side, as you
pass your friends of the Stubborn Stock.
LAURA: I grab my Spiritual Weapon as we're leaving
and drag the giant lollipop out of the arena with me.
MATT: Leaving this large groove in the sand behind
you. As you guys walk by, the team begins to--
there's this slow motion, like opposing little
league baseball teams passing each other.
MATT, MARISHA, LAURA, and ASHLEY: Good game.
MATT: You see Darrow, who gives this, "Not too
bad, well played." Gives a smile as he continues
past. You see the dwarven crossbow ranger gives a
grin with his big scruffy poof beard. There's the
half-elf woman with two warhammers that she's
spinning on the leather straps on the end. You see
this really fucking old guy. This wrinkly, old
prospector-looking eyes through these wrinkled
slits. (hoarse greeting)
TRAVIS, MARISHA, and ASHLEY: Fucking old.
MATT: I have no other way to describe him.
TRAVIS: Old as balls.
LAURA: Is his hair long or short?
MATT: His hair's long past his shoulders, but it's
super bald skullet on top. You see there's a
tattooed halfling, who's got his chin in the air,
grin and give you a show, and there's the human
archer that has a longbow that's at the ready. All
of them walk by, all six of them, into the center
of the arena.
SAM: As we walk by, can I try to untie the old
guy's shoelaces?
MATT: Make a sleight of hand check.
SAM: 20.
MATT: (laughs) He does not notice. It's not a
shoelace, unfortunately. There's a boot lace. You
untie it. You don't know how much of an effect it
will have.
TRAVIS: You just killed that old man. Well done,
Nott.
LAURA: They looked pretty cool.
MARISHA: They did.
LAURA: Do you think we looked that cool?
MARISHA: I liked how the archer was walking around
ready, all the time, maybe we should do that.
LAURA: Yeah. Nott, always keep your crossbow
loaded.
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: But how will I drink?
MATT: As you guys make your way into the holding
area, the doors close once more. As the goliath,
Jermai Kull, shouts out, "For the final match of
the tournament, and the final round, the Stubborn
"Stock!" The audience big shouts, screams, hands in
the air, then silence. (monster shriek) The gates
on the side open as they all circle around and
look ready, not able to really ascertain the
direction. All the gates open, and then barreling
through at the far side, you see a large 20-foot
dragonoid creature with a long snout, wings that
have been carved and cut to where it cannot fly,
and it's lumbering forward without its flight. No
arms, just the wings, giant clawed legs, and a
long tail with a large poison stinger at the end.
This is a wyvern. A wyvern that's been prevented
flight, and comes barreling straight to the
center. They immediately go into a formation to
accept the creature as it goes. Darrow rushes up
with his battleaxe and starts cutting into the
creature. You see this divine energy flicker off
the arc as it slams into the side of this, this
flash of radiant energy off of his battleaxe. He
pulls away, his long black ponytail swishing
behind from the arc of the blow. As he ducks out
of the way, the tail swings and he ducks
underneath it. The archer pulls back an arrow and
the arrow flashes bright blue-green energy before
it strikes and bursts into arcane energy on the
side of this wyvern. It turns around and grabs the
dwarf by the head and begins to thrash around with
him in its jaws, throwing him about ten feet, he
skids to the ground, falls unconscious in the
first round.
LAURA: Just like you, Molly!
MATT: The old armored guy pulls up a symbol from
his chest and begins to chant in the wrong
direction, before the halfling grabs him and spins
him this way, and he goes, "Right, ha!" and
continues his chants. Another weapon, a Spiritual
Weapon appears and apparates, but it looks like a
large club of stone that begins to slam. The
wyvern spins around and its tail manages to impact
the belly of the old guy as he finishes his chant,
and you watch him go limp and fall to the ground.
MARISHA: Guys, I feel like we got the better end
of the deal on this draw. Kind of glad I'm not
fighting this thing.
MATT: The halfling with the tattoos tears his
shirt down and exposes all these tattoos on his
chest, and he slaps them and begins to chant in a
Haka-style chant. He begins to (chanting). As he's
doing this chant, all of his allies that are
standing begin to get revved up, before he rushes
in and pulls a blade and strikes at the wyvern,
carving into its side.
LAURA: Yasha, you should do that.
MARISHA: We should rip off these guys' aesthetic
completely.
ASHLEY: I just like the idea of the formation.
MARISHA: Yeah, formations are cool.
MATT: You watch as the dwarven crossbow ranger
rushes up and brings the cleric back to health.
The cleric comes to consciousness and then brings
through a quick casting of a spell off to the
side, the-- what's the other one there, it was
the--
LAURA: Was the old guy the cleric?
MATT: The old guy's the one that went down, and--
actually, no, the dwarf you thought was down
actually gets back up. He wasn't unconscious, just
knocked really hard. He gets up, makes sure the
cleric is up. The cleric heals some people around
them and they begin to curl around it. They
continue to strike and back and forth, the
audience is breathless at moments. The wyvern
jumps up on top of one of the walls, its stinger
spins around and jams into Darrow. You see Darrow,
the leader, takes a blow to the chest, and he goes
unconscious on the ground before the wyvern
pounces on him and starts tearing into the body.
LAURA: He's eating him!
MATT: The halfling, who's still continuing this
chant, rushes forward, leaps onto its back and
begins carving at the back of its neck. The
elderly cleric begins approaching, still chanting
in his mind and he's unleashing heal spells, and
occasionally throwing a bolt of energy, an
electrical divine bolt of energy strikes the side
of the wyvern. The dwarven ranger unleashes strike
after strike of the crossbow and the wyvern's
hitting whatever comes near it. Two more of the
members go unconscious and it gets down to just
three on their side, before they manage to
continue to stab into its side. Like a
long-running bull fighting ring, both sides are
exhausted at this point. Three of the six are down
and the wyvern's still standing. Darrow has gotten
back up and is breathing hard. He backs around the
side and they've all surrounded the wyvern who's
feeling cornered at this point, blood pouring from
different wounds on its body. It gives another
loud shriek. It turns around towards the elderly
cleric and charges him and with a giant sweep of
its jaw, sends him about ten, 15 feet in the air
before he lands and rolls, unconscious on the
ground.
SAM: Does the shoe fall off?
MATT: There's two left. The boot does dislodge and
arc an additional ten feet before resting away
from--
TRAVIS: Catching on the power line.
MARISHA: Knock down the shoes.
MATT: With that, the two standing members which
are Darrow and the halfling both charge in. The
halfling gives a pat on Darrow's shoulder and
shouts out a phrase in a language you don't
understand. Darrow seems to embolden his muscles,
rushes in for a strike and carves down with his
battleaxe into the back of the neck after it
slammed into the cleric. As the blade sinks in
about five or six inches, the large battle cry
that it gave shrinks back into this weird
withering screech. As it whips around, Darrow
pulls his battleaxe out and backs away a few
steps. The wyvern falls to its knees and with that
Darrow spins the battleaxe in his hands and carves
off the rest of its head with two, three, four
strikes before it collapses. With that
(cheering).
LAURA: I use Thaumaturgy to say in the audience,
"The Mighty Nein are cooler still."
MATT: (chuckles) The cheers are deafening at this
point. The gates open in front of you as the emcee
walks out once more and goes, "An incredible fight
by the Stubborn Stock! Bring out our other
"winners, The Mighty Nein!" The audience goes into
loud cheers. You guys step out into the arena. The
same crew's coming out and dragging the body of
the wyvern off down into the depths of where it
was originally unleashed and the doors close
behind. The clerics rush out and bring to
consciousness the other members of the Stubborn
Stock. They all eventually rise, beaten and
bruised and as winded as a lot of you look. They
give you a look as you approach and it's a "well
done" smile. Wordless, but a nod of respect. Then
you to the right side of Jermai Kull, them to the
left. "Raise your arms! For today on this Harvest
Close, you are the victors!" The crowd goes crazy
once more, flowers and bits of rice grain and all
sorts of things are thrown into the center of the
ring in part of the celebration.
LAURA: Throw some money instead!
MATT: There are copper flung from the audience,
from the row. You guys take that moment. While
it's frustrating to share it, maybe, you made it.
One of the gates on the opposite side opens up and
a group of seven individuals begin to approach in
various robes. You recognize a lot of them as
people that were in the lounge earlier before you
entered this actual arena. They're carrying a
small chest of iron and dark set wood and as they
place it on the ground, they begin to pull out
sacks of money. They're presenting you the divided
prize. That's three rounds for the group and each
round was 200 gold. That's 600 gold that you guys
get to divide and then the final pot was 2000
divided amongst the two teams. An additional 1000
to your team. So 1600 gold.
TRAVIS: Not bad.
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: As the money's delivered to you, you acquire
your reward. There's a final burst of cheers from
the audience and you're escorted back into the
holding area where the other groups have already
left. They close the doors behind and it seems
like the fanfare's over, the attention on you,
momentarily, has faded and it's just you guys, the
clerics, and the other group, the Stubborn Stock.
LAURA: Did you say all the politicians have
already left as well?
MATT: Last you saw, they were up in the stands.
LAURA: Oh, okay. Okay.
MATT: You guys just got back to the holding area,
taking a breath for yourself.
TALIESIN: Is there a heal spell in the house?
(groan)
MATT: Darrow goes, "That's a really good question.
Clerics?" The clerics say, "We've used most of
"them, but I can offer a couple." They come up and
they give you a heal. You heal eight hit points.
TALIESIN: That helps.
LAURA: Heal Yasha too, she's really low.
MATT: Yasha, you get one and then that's a ten.
You heal ten. Then two other spells are delivered
to the opposing side. The other team.
LAURA: Yeah, because they had a lot more people
that fell, actually, so they probably need it
really bad.
TRAVIS: That was very well fought. Impressive.
MATT: "I appreciate that. I say the same to your
team. That was no small feat. I mean, literally.
"It was very large feet on that gentleman."
LAURA: But a very tiny dick, as was pointed out by
our friend, Beau.
MATT: "As I heard that from across the way."
MARISHA: Really, he doesn't catch nuance though,
so.
MATT: "That's okay."
MARISHA: Good to know for next time.
MATT: "Apparently giants do not suffer the same
insecurities that most people in this town does."
LIAM: What happens now? Do we just go home after
this or is there some sort of soire afterwards?
MATT: "Oh, there is, but in the lounge area.
Come!"
LIAM: Who is invited to the party?
MATT: "Well, the winners, of course."
MARISHA: Is there free booze?
MATT: "Most likely."
MARISHA: All right.
MATT: "Come on!"
TALIESIN: I need a drink.
MATT: The dwarf behind you goes, "Oh, aye. I could
go with that one too. (grunts)" He's holding his
back. The half-elf who had the two warhammers
goes, "Oh, don't worry, honey." Scruffs his hair.
He goes, "Stop it!" He puts his arm around her
waist and the two walk off together.
TRAVIS: Dwarf got game.
LAURA: They're cute together.
MATT: You're led back to the lounge where you had
originally signed up for this, also the same place
where you had overheard the conversation with
Starosta. As you enter now, it's still that
low-lit interior with the fine furniture,
cushions. The food spread has been refilled. The
drinks are poured. The servants are going around
with their trays to make sure that everyone has
opportunity to eat and drink as you go. Inside,
however, it is a little busier than the last time
you recall. The Starosta, Wyatt, is there as well,
currently entertaining a few guests in there.
There's a couple of well-dressed merchants that
look like they're dressed in the same way that
many of travelers from the Menagerie Coast are.
There's one of them who looks like they're wearing
clothing that's a little more exotic than you're
familiar with. You do also see, within this area--
let's see here. You see Lawmaster Orentha
Stonegrasp, there with her gray, curled hair, the
older dwarven Lawmaster of Zadash.
LAURA: Oh, she's the one that we talked to
before.
MATT: Briefly, yeah. You had one encounter with.
Alongside her is Dolan Thrym and two other people
you haven't met.
SAM, MARISHA, and LAURA: Dolan.
LAURA: The guy from the--
SAM: Our Dolan.
LIAM: Are they totally visible to us? What are
their physical appearance?
MATT: Oh the what-- what?
LIAM: The people that are with Dolan, what do they
look like?
MATT: Oh. They both appear to be wearing similar
dull gold robes as to what you've seen members of
the King's Hall wear. But they're a little more
casual. They're not quite as presentory or
"in-the-office" mode.
TRAVIS: The individuals that are in the more
exotic clothing than we're used to, what can we see of
them? What do they look like?
MATT: Well, there's two people dressed in merchant
garb that you see, the colors and the silks and
the billowing pants and the jewellery is very
reminiscent of Menagerie Coast where it has a lot
of finger chains that attach to rings and it's
this very presentory jewelry, that isn't classic
European in visual aesthetic. You've seen it
around in town where you grew up so you gather
these people are from Menagerie Coast folk. The
one who looks very exotic has very light linen
outfit that is a dull eggshell white, but then
has trim that is gold and purple. The pants are a
deep blue. Short black hair, dark skin, bright
smile, but you don't notice any other cultural
touchstones that you have any previous experience
with.
LAURA: Have I ever seen an outfit like that
before?
MATT: You may have seen things similar to it
passing through your town from a distance or from
your mom's place of business, but nothing that you
would necessarily know. Roll a history check,
actually.
SAM: She knows her history.
LAURA: 19?
MATT: Actually. You get the sense that this is
probably Marquesian. He's probably travelled from
Marquet, which is a long way away. Very rare that
you find people coming all the way from Marquet to
the Empire, especially. Menagerie Coast a little
more often, but this is something different. As you
approach and enter, the Stubborn Stock immediately
scatter to the food and drink. Starosta Wyatt, who
you had seen briefly but not actually engaged with
before, stands up as tall as a halfling can as you
approach with his curly, matted hair and the
shocks of white and gray on the sides. His arms
open and he goes, "Congratulations! I just had to
come and tell you personally a fantastic display.
"Come closer, please, I want to meet all of you."
He starts putting hands out to meet you. "What's
"your name?"
ASHLEY: Hello. I am Yasha.
MATT: "Yasha. Pleasure to meet you. Fantastic
performance. You're a mighty warrior. I'm really
"impressed."
ASHLEY: Thank you very much.
MATT: "Oh. You are?"
TALIESIN: Molly. Charmed.
MATT: "Molly Charmed. Good, pleasure to meet
you."
TALIESIN: That'll do.
MATT: "Fantastic. You, miss?"
LAURA: Lady Fancypants McGee.
MATT: "That's a curious name."
LAURA: So nice to meet you.
MATT: "Pleasure to meet you as well. Pants are
rather fancy, well done. You there, little missy?"
SAM: Hi. I'm just Pam.
MATT: "Pam. Pleasure. Shy. That's okay, that's
allowed. What's your name?"
LIAM: Caleb.
MATT: "Caleb. Pleasure, pleasure to meet you. You
are?"
MARISHA: Beau.
MATT: "Beau. Well, pleasure to meet you as well.
And you, sir?"
TRAVIS: Fjord. It's been an honor fighting in your
Victory Pit.
MATT: "Oh, well, I will tell you, a brilliant
display of skill and precisely the kind of
"showmanship the fine people of Zadash need right
now. I appreciate your being a part of this. It's
"well-earned victory and--"
SAM: Was this person in the conversation I was
spying on before?
MATT: Yes. He was the one who was being notified.
This is the Starosta of Zadash.
SAM: Okay.
TRAVIS: Have tensions eased in the city a bit
since, you know, the incident?
MATT: "The incident?"
TRAVIS: Well, in the tower with the-- yeah.
MATT: "Oh, right. Well, we've taken care of that
for the time being. Repairs have been made, the
"tower's back where it was. The individuals you
probably want to talk to about that are over there
"in the corner." They were faced away from you when
you first entered, but looking out from the far
window that leads to the outside, you see two
figures faced away, looking outward, holding
glasses of wine. It looks to be the two figures
you saw when you first entered the ring, Oremid
Hass, the headmaster of the Zauber Spire. Or the
Halls of Erudition.
LAURA: Then the dude in the white robes?
MATT: The dude in the white robes.
MARISHA: Oh shit.
LIAM: They were the two that were just pointed out
to all of us.
MATT: Yes. They were just facing away from you
guys. Wyatt Fedar says, "If you want to enquire
"the specifics, they'd be the ones to talk to. I
will say, I've recently been notified by
"Stonegrasp." He points over to the Lawmaster,
who's in conversation on the side with her own
people. "That you had already completed some
dangerous contract work for the city, is that
"correct?"
TRAVIS: That's indeed true, yeah. We found
ourselves in harm's way. We're always looking for
the next bit of adventure to put some coin in our
pockets and do the city some good.
MATT: "That's fantastic."
LAURA: We beat a spider.
MATT: "That's the one she mentioned. That thing
had been a problem for some time, I hear, so it's
"greatly appreciated. You've done twice now, a
great service for this city. Well, this evening is
"yours to celebrate. Things shifting as they are,
we may have need of upstanding and skilled
"citizens of the Empire such as yourselves in the
near future. Should you be interested, that is."
LAURA: Is everything okay, Starosta? You seem
rather stressed. I'm good at spotting these things.
MATT: "I appreciate that. My position here comes
with a number of responsibilities so at any given
"point in time I'm probably am very visibly
stretched, but I'm doing the best I can. I
"appreciate that. Where might we contact you,
should we be so interested?"
TRAVIS: Well, we're frequently at the-- what the
name was the--
LAURA: The Leaky Tap.
TRAVIS: The Leaky Tap. Yep.
MATT: "Leaky Tap Tavern, okay."
TALIESIN: Frequently, not always.
LAURA: Yeah. Sometimes we stay at the Pillow
Trove, you know.
TALIESIN: Sometimes we're out and about.
MATT: "All right. Well, good to know. Should we
have need of you, we'll know where to come and
"find you."
TRAVIS: Actually, on the Pillow Trove: you know,
sometimes people don't quite know the services we
do for the city. Sure would help if we had some
sort of slip or badge that would allow us to move
more freely, you know?
LIAM: Through the gates.
MATT: "Oh well, that's not a worry, I don't think.
Simon!" Hits the side of the chair and one of the
crownsguard comes up, but a more decorated
crownsguard. Looks like he holds more status and
he goes, "Yes, Starosta?" He looks about and says,
"Can we ensure that the rest of your body of
"soldiers understand that these fine champions of
this year's Harvest Close festival are allowed
"entry and exit from our fine Tri-Spires?" He's
like, "Yes, sir. We will make sure that the
"Crownsguard are aware of The Mighty Nein and their
ability to pass in and out unimpeded."
TRAVIS: Most gracious of you.
LAURA: Thank you so much. What is your name?
MATT: "Oh, I'm Jeremiah. Captain Jeremiah. I'm--
anyway. Well done, well fought." He takes a step
back out of the conversation and you get the sense
that there's a little bit of a hierarchy there
where the Starosta, not meaning to, but there's a
very much, "I should not be part of this
"conversation," and he steps out of it. "Well. Very
well. Look, enjoy your well-earned evening of
"revelry as much as you can. I have a sense there
are some stressful days ahead so enjoy it. Rest
"well." Takes his glass and drinks to you.
SAM: To a better tomorrow!
MATT: "Indeed, young girl." He turns around and
sits up on the couch, and re-engages in
conversation with one of his various guests.
TRAVIS: He certainly seems stressed.
SAM: He's going to die tomorrow in war.
TRAVIS: What?
SAM: We all are.
TRAVIS: What are you talking about?
SAM: Didn't I tell you guys? There's a war
starting tomorrow?
TRAVIS: Did you?
SAM: I overheard them. Yes!
LAURA: She did tell us.
SAM: We're all going to die. We should leave now.
LAURA: We're not going to die. The war is very far
away from us.
TALIESIN: I can't believe I find myself agreeing
with Nott here. We should get out of town while
it's still possible.
TRAVIS: Really? We're just starting to climb our
way up through this thing.
TALIESIN: You leave the table when you've got the
pot. You don't wait for everything to go back to
the dealer.
LIAM: I think for a day or two, everyone here is
going to be very preoccupied in the city. If there
is anything you are thinking of doing, it would be
a good time to do it.
LAURA: We should steal everything.
TALIESIN: At some point, they're going to start
looking for people to fight this war, and I'm not
sure I want to be around for it, because boy they
know who we are now.
LIAM: What I am suggesting is a compromise. Not
leaving immediately, but soon.
LAURA: I need time to go back to the Pillow Trove,
you guys.
LIAM: DM, can you remind me what time of day it
is?
MATT: It's past dusk now. At this point, nine
o'clock in the evening.
LIAM: On past days, has Pumat's place been open
this late?
MATT: It has been.
TALIESIN: I still have a giant tapestry over my
shoulder.
LAURA: I like to think you did the entire fight
with it.
TALIESIN: I put it down before the fight.
TRAVIS: Anyone else pick up on those two
individuals over in the corner?
LAURA: Well, he pointed them out, we should go
talk to them.
MARISHA: They look familiar.
LAURA: What should we say?
ASHLEY: Do you want me to do the talking?
TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Yes.
ASHLEY: I was kidding.
SAM: No, you should. You weren't with us the night
that all this went down, so they would not suspect
you of anything.
LAURA: That's actually true.
TRAVIS: Outside your boundaries, here you go.
Let's go.
ASHLEY: Fjord, can you come-- We're all going to
go, right?
TRAVIS: Sure. Yeah. I'll join you. Jester?
LAURA: You want me to come, too?
TALIESIN: I actually think maybe it should be her
and Beau, because they won't recognize her, and
human faces tend to blend into the crowd, whereas
we do not.
LAURA: I can listen to the Starosta.
TRAVIS: Fair enough.
LIAM: I am already hanging out by the door to this
place. I left 30 seconds ago.
ASHLEY: Wait, but I was actually kidding.
TALIESIN: I'm not.
LAURA: You'll be great, Yasha.
SAM: Just ask them about what happened the other
night and the Crick that they killed.
TALIESIN: Remember how we talked about getting you
out in the world more, and then you said you
didn't want to, but then we said you're going to
have to do it anyway?
ASHLEY: I know, but--
TALIESIN: This is those times.
ASHLEY: (sighs) Okay.
MARISHA: Come on, let's go make asses out of
ourselves!
TALIESIN: She'll take care of you.
LAURA: Ask about the Xhorhasian that they fought
and then ask them how they do so much cool magic.
Then ask them--
SAM: Who they work for? We know who they work for.
What do we need from them?
MARISHA: Names. Information.
TRAVIS: What are they worried about?
MARISHA: Where are they going to fight? Are they
going to roll out people?
LAURA: Ask them how they fly.
SAM: Oh! Why don't you just act like you know more
than you do? Like, (gruff voice) Whoa, I hear
war's coming tomorrow. What about that?
TRAVIS: If we're going to help the city, the more
we know, the better.
TALIESIN: Let's not even start making vague
promises. Just be yourself and you'll
be fine. Just be anybody but yourself
and you'll be fine. It's going to be great.
MARISHA: What was that about making promises?
TRAVIS: As they start walking over, I'm going to
wide flank to the left--
MATT: Wait, so who's going where?
MARISHA: Me and Yasha are going to go talk to the
wizards.
MATT: Beau and Yasha are going there?
LAURA: You're not going to go too?
TRAVIS: No, these two.
LAURA: Oh jeez. I'm going to constantly stay
within a few feet of the Starosta, but not in like
a weird way. I just want to like overhear his
conversations and see if he's talking about war
and stuff.
TRAVIS: I'd like to flank to the left and keep an
eye on the crowd to see if anybody pays attention
to two strangers approaching.
MATT: Okay. It seems that the cluster of merchants
that he had originally mentioned are keeping
pretty close to the Starosta. They're probably in
the business of discussing future transactions and
business. You gather probably more on the Starosta
making connections in preparation for what's about
to transpire.
LIAM: Is it really crowded in here? Are there a
lot of people?
MATT: There's about 20 or so people in the
chamber. The chamber's maybe about 40 feet by 40
feet. It's fairly packed.
LIAM: I am going to send Frumpkin dancing around
people's feet to follow Yasha and Beau, and take a
seat in a chair on the side of the room as close
to the door as possible.
MATT: You find a chair, everyone seems to be
standing and conversing.
MARISHA: It's okay. Fjord's been teaching me how
to talk to people.
ASHLEY: Do you want to take the lead?
MARISHA: Sure. I walk up to Orenid Hass. Oremid.
MATT: They're both faced away and they're looking
out. There's a window that's open that leads out
into the main Victory Pit and then there's the
sky, which is mostly clouds, occasionally you see
a break with some stars. They're in the middle of
a conversation, but it's hushed.
MARISHA: I grab Yasha behind on the small of her
back. I walk her up to the window, and I'm like:
Yeah, and there's actually a really great view--
MATT: They both immediately stop and turn over to
look at you.
ASHLEY: I can't even imagine the beauty.
MARISHA: Right? It's such a great view. Over there
is the Cobalt Soul.
MATT: "Pardon me, can we help you?" You glance
over, and you can see Oremid Hass, at first
glance: squat, maybe five-foot-three, but a wide
body, like Wolverine proportions. Very dark, ruddy
brown skin with eyes that are black like obsidian
that sparkle when you look at them. The hair is
very short and curled, and there's this very
strongly inset dimple wrinkle when he smiles with
teeth that are dull gray in color. There's
something not quite human about him, but also very
welcoming. As he turns towards you, there's a bit
of dust that is loosened from the edges of his
ears, and it (air puffing). It's a strange
phenomenon. With long reddish-gold robes, his arms
are folded in the sleeves where you can't see
them. He says, "I apologize, we've taken time away
"from the window." The other gentleman turns
towards you, and you can see now, very close, an
older gentleman, probably 70s or so, skin slightly
jaundiced or yellowed in color versus the usual
pigmentation here. Bald on top, but longer
gray-white hair that goes past the shoulders, the
same white and gold robes. He smiles, but he looks
like he's not enjoying the pleasantries of the
space, but then puts on a face as soon as he
notices your arrival and gives a nod. "I recognize
"both of you. You were part of this fight ordeal,
The Mighty Nein, correct?"
MARISHA: We were. I recognize you, too. I feel
like we've met before. Maybe at a gala
previously?
MATT: "It's possible. I do not recall, but if so,
it is good to see you again. I'm sorry."
MARISHA: Beau.
MATT: "Beau, I am Oremid Hass. I am the Headmaster
of the Halls of Erudition. This is my compatriot,
"Master Trent Ikithon."
MARISHA: Trent Ikithon.
MATT: He turns and goes, "It is a pleasure to meet
you. I saw what you did today as well. It was a
"very majestic display of skills, quite."
ASHLEY: Thank you very much.
MARISHA: Majestic is my middle name. We saw, the
other day, you guys fighting off those invaders,
that was very impressive. Thank you so much for
your service to the city.
MATT: Oremid goes to raise his hand and Trent
goes, "Oh, so you were present during the attack
"outside of the Zauber Spire, ja?"
MARISHA: Well, I mean, it was pretty public.
Towers are tall.
MATT: "Well, it was an unfortunate incident that,
thankfully, we were present, both of us, to take
"care of it before it grew too dangerous."
ASHLEY: What were you fighting?
MATT: "That seemed to be assassins sent by the
Kryn dynasty, terrible Cricks that had attempted to
"steal something that should not fall into their
hands."
ASHLEY: The Kryn dynasty, they are from northern
Xhorhas?
MATT: "That is correct." He gives you a look over,
like he's inspecting you with a very rapid and
very detailed intake of your features, and he
goes, "Where are you from, if I might ask?"
SAM: Abort, abort, abort.
ASHLEY: I am... from...
MATT: "Where did you grow up?"
ASHLEY: Xhorhas.
MATT: "How long have you lived here in the
Empire?"
ASHLEY: Not very long. About, let's see, maybe
eight months or something?
MARISHA: That doesn't look good. No.
MATT: "Fascinating."
MARISHA: She travels and has helped--
MATT: Trent isn't even looking at you. He's
completely focused on Yasha.
ASHLEY: I travel. I left. (stammers) I chose not
to live there anymore.
MATT: "Why did you leave?"
ASHLEY: I just, you know, it's not a great place
to live. It's awful. It's marsh and it's not a
comfortable place to live.
MATT: Make a wisdom saving throw for me real
fast.
ALL: Ooh.
LAURA: Wisdom saving throw? He just did Zone of
Truth on you!
TALIESIN: Wow, that was cocked.
LAURA: Super cocked.
SAM: Super cock!
ASHLEY: Seven. Because I have a negative.
MATT: As you're talking, it's weird. He's staring
at you, but for a moment you feel like there's an
illusion over his mouth and his fingers. They're
still not moving, but it's almost like your eyes
catch something shifting unseen beneath them. It's
almost like you've layered two images over each
other for a brief second. Then they're gone, and
he goes, "Huh. Well, very happy to have you
"fighting on our side."
ASHLEY: Yes, I most definitely am. I can assure
you I don't stand for anything bad from the
Xhorhas and I am here to help.
MATT: "Wonderful. Maintain that, please."
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: "You and your friends seem to be very
helpful, and a lot of help may be needed. Should
"you ever stray from that path... It has been a
pleasure, Yasha."
ASHLEY: Yes, that's me.
MATT: He reaches out and shakes your hand once
more. "I would like very much to talk to you some
"time in the future. You're intriguing."
MARISHA: Well, you see, you have to go through me,
because I'm her booker. That's actually a
conversation that me and you and the rest of The
Mighty Nein can have.
MATT: "You're Cobalt Soul, aren't you?" Oremid
goes, "Please, stop this interrogation. I
"apologize. My friend is very studious."
MARISHA: No, I am Cobalt Soul. Yeah. Super proud
of the work we're doing over there.
MATT: "You have done much great work and have
aided us on many occasions."
MARISHA: Everyone at the Cobalt Soul feels the
same about you all at the Halls of Erudition.
MATT: Oremid Hass actually laughs and he goes,
(laughs) "Look. I know that there have been
"tensions in the past, but, complete honesty, I
really appreciate what you do over there."
MARISHA: Thank you.
MATT: "Anyway, we must be off. The evening has
grown late. Isn't that correct?" Trent goes, "Yes,
"that is correct. It's been a pleasure. I look
forward to our paths crossing again."
ASHLEY: Great. Same here, because this was great
conversation.
MARISHA: One last question, Oremid. The Cobalt
Soul's been talking about moving to the front
line. Do you have any idea if we're going to get
the same support from the Hall of Erudition?
Because I know you're a fan of our work and we're
such a mutual fan of yours.
MATT: "To the front line of what?"
ASHLEY: Ah, you know.
MATT: "We train a good number of war mages, yes.
Some of our finest will be present at Bladegarden
"and beyond. Should things escalate any further,
I'm sure a number of our circle will also join
"where it's necessary."
MARISHA: Beautiful.
MATT: "You have my word and the word of the
Assembly."
MARISHA: Cobalt Soul's got your back too.
ASHLEY: But to be clear, do you know what you're
fighting?
MATT: They both have a knowing look at each other
and look back to you. Trent casts forward and
says, "We have been studying for quite some time
as is the nature of protecting our people here,
"yes, but there are still many mysteries beyond the
boundaries. Why? Is there something you know that
"we don't?"
ASHLEY: Just if you're fighting-- I just wanted to
know if you were fighting the Kryn.
MATT: "Very much so. They have killed many of our
people. The skies to the east darken, and we want
"to keep that darkness from spreading. We wish the
sun to continue to rise on this empire, and
"currently it does not over the Ashkeeper Peaks."
ASHLEY: I wish you the best of luck.
MATT: "Thank you. If you're ever near Rexxentrum,
find me. I would like to continue this
"conversation."
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: Oremid Hass speaks up and goes, "All right.
Well, anyway, a wonderful night to you all. Rest
"well. Congratulations and well fought."
TRAVIS: DM, can I ask, is his name
Trick-a-tick-a-ting-tong? What was his name?
MATT: Trent Ikithon. I-K-I-T-H-O-N.
LAURA: Oh, I spelled it right!
MATT: You're welcome.
SAM: I ran a half-ikithon once.
TRAVIS: Boo!
ASHLEY: Where did he say we could meet up?
TRAVIS: Rexxentrum.
ASHLEY: Rexxentrum?
MATT: Rexxentrum, yeah.
TRAVIS: Which is where the Soltryce is.
MARISHA: Rexxentrum. Soltryce Academy.
MATT: They exit, and you watch as Oremid, halfway
through the room, as he has his arms folded, goes,
"Oh my goodness. Look at you!" and gets down and
starts going towards Frumpkin and is like, "Well,
"how did you get in here?"
MARISHA: Oh my god, he's got a weakness.
MATT: He begins reaching for--
LIAM: Hass or Ikithon?
MATT: No. Oremid Hass immediately goes down and
goes from this completely well-established
presentary persona to this child-like wonder of
this cat. He's like, "Come here.
"Please. I would like to touch on you."
LIAM: I'm taking all this in first person.
MATT: Yep.
MARISHA: Let's remember this for later.
TRAVIS: My whiskers!
LIAM: That's all I can take. I get out of it.
MATT: Okay. You pull out of it, and you watch as
Oremid actually picks up Frumpkin and holds him in
his hand and starts petting him like (coos). They
both continue to walk towards the exit.
LIAM: I lean forward and look at the ground.
MATT: Okay. As they exit the chamber, Oremid,
outside, goes ahead and sets Frumpkin down and
pets his head for a moment. "Go on. Don't get
stuck inside." They both leave and exit into the night.
TALIESIN: That looked like it went well. How bad
was it?
SAM: What information did you glean?
MARISHA: Man, Yasha's super honest.
SAM: Why? What happened?
MARISHA: Super forthcoming.
ASHLEY: I figured it's like one of those things,
that if you're going to get caught, you might as
well tell the truth because it's easier to
remember. I don't know. I panicked.
TRAVIS: Well, did you say anything you didn't want
to?
ASHLEY: I don't think so. Did I say anything that
was bad?
MARISHA: I don't think so.
LIAM: Maybe where you are from and how short a
time you have been here.
ASHLEY: Oh, I said both of those things.
TALIESIN: You said both of those things?
LIAM: Yes, you did.
MARISHA: You definitely made it seem like she
could be a Xhorhasian spy definitely there to
potentially kill them. In fact, I think that's
exactly what they thought might have been
happening.
LIAM: Yeah, but you also dropped a horse apple in
front of them as well.
MARISHA: Yeah, it was kind of great.
TRAVIS: What'd she do?
LIAM: She mentioned a little insight on the
pending war when no one knows about the pending war.
MARISHA: I think they're going to look at you as a
good resource. I think that's what you revealed
yourself as.
ASHLEY: Either that, or they think that I'm a
Xhorhasian assassin, and I am not.
MARISHA: What the fuck is the Kryn though?
SAM: The Kryn is the kingdom over there.
TRAVIS: Kryn.
ASHLEY: It's the Kryn dynasty.
MARISHA: Oh, the Kryn.
LAURA: Kryn is the empress of the drow, you guys.
TRAVIS: The green is something else.
LAURA: I'm not here. I'm next to Starosta.
TALIESIN: It didn't devolve into a punching fest.
That's pretty good.
LAURA: Is the Starosta still here?
MATT: The Starosta is still here, yes.
LAURA: Okay, I'm still there.
MATT: Make a perception check.
MARISHA: I was envisioning a big, evil monster.
LAURA: 20.
MATT: Okay. You overhear the gist of most of the
conversation, best you can without catching too
much attention to yourself. Over the next 20
minutes or so, you catch what amounts to them
discussing possible future difficulty in crossing
border boundaries between the empire, the
Menagerie Coast, and imports. The necessity of
them, but having to make sure they go through very
stringent processes in doing so, with the promise
of coming conflict. He doesn't outright say that
they're at war yet, but the Starosta is
essentially laying the groundwork for maintaining
trade lines through the Wuyun Gorge, across the
Cyrios Mountains. Wanting to make sure that the
port towns of the Menagerie Coast still have
access to get the necessary goods to the empire,
not only to maintain their people, but to get them
as quickly as possible to the front to the east.
TRAVIS: Right, allies.
MATT: Yeah, they're trying to basically
establish-- what initially seemed like it may have
been a pleasantry based arrival on their part,
they have been pulled into this conversation with
the Starosta out of necessity from his standpoint.
You can sense there's a bit of desperation in his
voice. He's generally trying to do the best job he
can and feels overwhelmed in the moment and is
trying as best he can to cover it.
SAM: Yasha. Just so we know and can-- I trust you.
But if there's anything that we need to know, now
would be a good time to tell us so that we're not
in danger. Are you a Xhorhasian spy come here to
do bad things to the empire?
ASHLEY: No.
TALIESIN: Oh my god, you've discovered why she's
been with my circus all this time, working as a
bouncer.
SAM: Well, why are you here then? Why did you
flee?
ASHLEY: Well, I don't know if that is any of your
business at this time.
SAM: Well, I want to know in case they're going to
come try to kill you and kill me by accident.
TALIESIN: If they try and kill you to get answers,
then, this way, you don't know anything. Then
you're really not worth anything.
TRAVIS: Plausible deniability.
SAM: Plausi-mon-a-mon-a-minity?
TRAVIS: There was an M in there that wasn't
supposed to be.
Plausible demi-ability.
LIAM and TALIESIN: Sea anemone. Sea anemone.
SAM: I just want to know if you're on their side
or the Xhorhasian side so that when this war
comes, that we're not caught in the crossfire.
That's all.
TALIESIN: What side are you on?
SAM: I'm on my side.
TALIESIN: Exactly.
ASHLEY: I'm not on any side, but I do think what
we are fighting is something very terrible.
SAM: You mean what they're fighting?
ASHLEY: Yeah.
SAM: In Xhorhas?
SAM: The Kryn?
ASHLEY: Yeah. I mean, we heard about them in the
north and they're mostly dark elves that settled
in a massive ruin that was completely forbidden
for us to travel to.
SAM: Did they do bad things to your people?
ASHLEY: Yeah. The ones that went there. They do
keep their skies dark. It's some kind of dark
magic that we don't know of that keeps the sun
away. They've enslaved men and beasts and demons
under their banner.
SAM: That sucks.
MARISHA: Have you seen the dark skies?
ASHLEY: I've never been there because it's hard to
get there and it's not someplace I would want to
go alone.
SAM: Did you know anyone who went?
ASHLEY: I've heard stories, but never anybody
personally.
TRAVIS: Are you interested in going there?
ASHLEY: I've always been curious. Just to see with
my own eyes, but they've done so many bad things
that I would want to fight them.
MARISHA: I think Molly's right. I think Molly and
Nott are right. I think they're going to try and
start enlisting soldiers here. Are they doing the
same where you're from?
ASHLEY: I don't know.
LIAM: During this whole talking, I look in and see
where my cat is.
MATT: Frumpkin is maybe 20 feet outside the door
and is waiting for you guys to exit.
LIAM: Okay. I tell him to wait there for me.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: If we're really going to be pulling out of
this city that fast, haha. Maybe we should take
advantage of these new badges we have and hit up
the Tri-Spires.
TALIESIN: Finish the evening off right. I'll
honestly say I'd like to get out of here as soon
as possible so they don't think we're running from
the news. We get out of here before the news hits.
TRAVIS: Fair enough. All at once?
MARISHA: Where do we go?
TALIESIN: I don't care. I'm just happier moving
than staying still.
LIAM: How quickly are you thinking?
TALIESIN: If it were just the two of us, I'd say
leave tonight, but--
LIAM: How about 24 hours from now?
TALIESIN: See if we can make it faster, but 24
hours is not terrifying.
TRAVIS: Dusk tomorrow.
TALIESIN: No later than dusk. I would like to get
out before news starts to spread. Before they
decide to start locking down the holes.
LIAM: Yeah. One more day. Just to get supplies and
get ready for the road again.
TALIESIN: That's a fair point.
SAM: Should we divide up the money?
MARISHA: Yes!
TRAVIS: I believe that's 228 gold each.
SAM: Great!
MATT: As you guys are in the process of finishing
this up and people are starting to leave from the
lounge area and they're starting to close down,
Darrow comes up with his troupe-- they're a ways
into their cups-- and he's like, "Friends, before
we shove off and probably never meet again, I just
"wanted to say it's been an absolute pleasure to
get to meet you, to watch you fight, for you to
"watch us fight. All the luck in your future
endeavors."
TRAVIS: Same to you. It was very impressive. Where
does fate take you after this night?
MATT: "Well, as far as I know, we're probably
heading back up to Nogvurot and continuing with
"our contract of sitting around and being paid for
nothing."
TRAVIS: Is that-- remind me again-- north of here?
Northwest?
MATT: "Northeast-ish. East of Rexxentrum. That's
where we've been stationed for the past six or
"seven months or so. Done a few jobs here and
there."
TRAVIS: Is this a contract that keeps on going or
is there any set end date for you guys?
MATT: "No, not until they cancel it."
TRAVIS: Man, that is rough. We've been hearing
little murmurs of action-- what direction is it?
SAM: East.
TRAVIS: East of here.
MATT: "Like over on the border with Xhorhas?"
TRAVIS: Indeed. Trouble stirring up. You hear
anything about that?
MATT: "Other than the fact that there have been
incursions and kidnappings and stuff, it's all
"been small and localized within the borders, but
Bladegarden's there for a reason, and
"Talonstadt."
TRAVIS: Since you're familiar with that trip back
and forth, anything you would recommend us
checking out? Just in case we decided to wander
for a bit?
MATT: "(laughter) What are you looking for?"
TRAVIS: I don't know, a good time, a bit of
adventure. Maybe a bit of both.
MATT: "Hm, a good time. To be perfectly honest, if
you're looking for wining, dining, and various
"nightly pleasures, my faith does not allow for
that so I'm a very bad source, but," and he turns
around--
LIAM: I think what my friend is talking about is
can you recommend any good ways to get into
trouble?
MATT: "Oh. Legal trouble, or illegal trouble?"
LIAM: What you will.
MATT: "If you're going to go illegal, you can
actually go just beyond the boundaries of the
"Empire to Shadycreek Run. Entire haven for
murderers, thieves, and all sorts of strange
"people."
TRAVIS: Maybe if it's not so gnarly?
MATT: "There is Deastok to the west, as well as
Kamordah. There's quite good drink in Kamordah.
"There's Pride's Call if you like the jovial
dwarvenfolk there. Much less dark and intense as
"Grimgolir, because they're right on the boundary
and most of them are fighting for the war as well.
"Personally, Rexxentrum's got it all."
TRAVIS: We hear that. Soltryce Academy is located
there as well.
MATT: "Yeah, that it is."
TRAVIS: Do you know anybody that's graduated from
that academy?
MATT: "Not privately, no. Like I said, I've only
been here for about a little over a half a year.
"To me, it's not been too bad."
TRAVIS: Fair enough. Well, I wish you the best.
MATT: "You as well, my friends. Drink deep. Play
hard."
TRAVIS: Indeed. Same to you.
LAURA: I'd like to stop the Starosta before he
leaves the room.
MATT: Okay. You do notice, as Darrow leaves, he
does have a medallion around his neck that,
previously, was hidden under his armor. It is the
symbol of the Dawnfather.
LAURA: It's the legal thing, after-- oh no, it's
not!
MATT: The Dawnfather's legal here.
LAURA: The Dawnfather is legal here.
MATT: As the rest of the folk are exiting out, you
guys have basically waited to close down the
party. Most of the servants are cleaning up and
finishing up the space. The Starosta begins to
leave and make his way out there with his
companions and they're chatting.
MARISHA: I drink all the leftover drinks that
people left behind.
MATT: Classiest. Classy.
SAM: I have limitless alcohol.
LAURA: May I have a moment of your time before you
leave?
MATT: "Oh yeah, of course! Jester-- " No, you told
him it was Fancypants.
LAURA: Fancypants, yes.
TRAVIS: McGee.
MATT: "Fancypants McGee."
LAURA: Yes.
MATT: "Right, right. Yes-- "
LAURA: My friends call me Jester.
MATT: "Fair enough. What can I do for you?"
LAURA: Well, I couldn't help but notice your body
posture, for this whole party, has been rather
tense. I don't know if you noticed, but I am a bit
of a healer, and I'm from the Menagerie Coast,
where I did a lot of mental healing, as well as
body healing. If there's anything you need to
relieve your stress, I'm very good at this. This
is why I came here.
MATT: He gives a look and goes, "Uh," and looks
back and forth between his companions. He goes,
"What are you insinuating?"
LAURA: I'm talking about somebody to talk to.
MATT: "Right! Right."
LAURA: To relieve your mind of your stress!
MATT: "Right. I really appreciate that offer.
Genuinely, Jester Fancypants McGee. However, such
"is my life-- "
LAURA: I know you have people that work for you--
MATT: "Maybe in a week. Give me some time. A lot of
stuff percolating right now, but Leaky Tap, right?"
LAURA: Or the Pillow Trove.
MATT: "Or the Pillow Trove. All right, well I may
have use of your services soon. Not at the moment,
"but soon."
LAURA: Okay. I can help your mind! You just
relieve that stress! It's somebody to talk to,
it's very helpful.
MATT: "I appreciate that. Soon." He is trying
desperately to not make the wrong impression to
his friends. He darts off with them into the
night.
TALIESIN: Are you drinking every random cup or are
you pouring them all into one cup?
TRAVIS: Suicide or one at a time?
MARISHA: No, I'm just finishing the ones that are
left behind! It is an atrocity to leave alcohol on
a table.
MATT: Make a constitution saving throw, Beau.
TRAVIS: Yeah! One of those was full of dip spit.
LIAM: Fjord's work.
MARISHA: 17.
MATT: Iron stomach Beauregard over here.
LAURA: You're going to have the shits later.
MARISHA: Probably.
TALIESIN: You're a trash person. I walk over and I
take your last drink and drink it and salute.
MARISHA: You're a-- You--
TALIESIN: I know!
LAURA: Oh man, you guys, I was really trying to
get the Starosta to talk to me.
SAM: Well, you offered him your services. I
would've said yes if a strange psychoanalyst
walked up to me and--
LAURA: I am a healer! I'm a really good healer.
TRAVIS: Did you tell him that he has to give you a
dollar to engage your services?
LAURA: No, I told him-- I didn't give him a price,
actually.
MARISHA: See, that's even shiftier.
LAURA: That means I'm really good, is what that
means.
ASHLEY: You charge for these services?
LAURA: Not for friends.
ASHLEY: Oh.
LAURA: (whispering) I'm actually really shit at
giving advice, but don't tell anyone, okay?
ASHLEY: I don't agree. I feel like you would be
very good at it.
LAURA: Well, any time you have any problems,
Yasha, you just come to me, okay?
ASHLEY: Okay. I'm maybe showing a little bit of pink
on my cheeks.
LIAM: Are we talking about rolling at the Pillow
Trove this evening? Is that what I am picking up on?
LAURA: I need to go by there anyway. How long has
it been since we've been in town?
MATT: Since you've been in town? It's probably
been a week and a half to two weeks.
LAURA: By this point, my mom has probably got the
package here.
TRAVIS: Well, by all means, let's stop by there
and then let's see if there's a fancy place for us to--
MARISHA: We have fucking money to burn!
SAM: We need some healing potions and things.
LAURA: Yes. I bet there's places in--
TRAVIS: We'll go by Pumat's later. It'll be fine.
LAURA: We could go to the Silken Terrace!
SAM: What is the Silken Terrace?
MATT: At this point now--
LIAM: Seven, eight, nine?
MATT: Oh, no, now it's probably about 10:30, 11
o'clock.
TRAVIS: Plus, there's always one of those Pumats
around.
SAM: Okay. What's the mission for tonight,
though?
TRAVIS: Tri-Spire. Pillow Trove. Get Jester's
package. Get turnt up. Get some healing potions.
LIAM: Wait, we're getting turnt up before we go to
Pumat's?
LAURA: Why not?
TRAVIS: Yeah!
LIAM: Do you think Pumat is going to be open at two
in the morning?
TRAVIS: At Ren Faire, the more you drink, the more
you spend.
LAURA: Why do we need to go now?
LIAM: We don't.
LAURA: It's late.
LIAM: Yes.
TALIESIN and LAURA: We did a lot today.
MARISHA: Oh my god, I'm so tired!
LAURA: That's probably because you just drank 15
drinks.
TRAVIS: Lead the way, Jester!
TALIESIN: Up early in the morning?
LAURA: Up early in the m-- Are we staying at the
Pillow Trove?
MARISHA: Pillow Trove!
TALIESIN: Yes!
LAURA: Did you guys divide the money up?
TALIESIN and SAM: Yes.
LAURA: What did I get?
TALIESIN and SAM: 228.
SAM: And five silver.
MATT: All right. You exit from the forum, the
Victory Pit, out into the night. The event is
still going on though most of the people have filtered out.
Everyone who remains is either pretty tossed or is in the
process of closing down their various carts and
established places of sale. The Pentamarket is
closing. The festival pushed it a little for some
establishments. You make your way, walking towards
the Tri-Spires, and that's we're going to take our
break.
MARISHA: We're at a break!
MATT: Yeah, we're taking a break because it's 8:50.
SAM: It's still your birthday!
(cheering)
MATT: We'll be right back. However, we do have our
Wyrmwood giveaway. Tonight, we have the quilted
maple dice tray. With our leather interior.
LAURA: Yeah, that's really cool!
MATT: You may touch it. Not only do you win it,
but you win it touched by Laura Bailey. The price
just went up by 20%. The quilted
maple one will go to one of you lucky winners in
the US or Canada, excluding Quebec. Come into the
Twitch chat. Tonight's term is "Victory." Put in
the word "Victory" in the chat to be entered, only
once. More than once and you'll be disqualified.
We'll come back at the end of the break to
announce the winner. See you guys there in a
little bit.
[break]
MATT: And welcome back, everybody. Before we jump
back into the game, we have our winner of our
fantastic dice box from Wyrmwood: it is
DeadLikeCarrion. DeadLikeCarrion, congratulations.
Danoba will get your information, we will get that
sent out to you A.S.A.P., but well done.
MARISHA: And thank you, Paul, for getting us all
ice cream!
MATT: Yes! We had break ice cream. Nobody tell my
trainer.
LAURA: I had the fro-yo, because it's healthier.
MATT: You guys are leaving the Pentamarket in the
late hours of the evening, making your way towards
the Tri-Spires. As you approach the outskirts of
the outer wall, the gates open, the guards there
posted, there are three there waiting. They begin
to approach as your troupe begins to arrive. One
of them steps up, goes, "Halt please, we've-- Oh,
right, please, you may continue."
TRAVIS: Yeah, we're them.
LIAM: Very obviously holding and petting my cat
and looking at all three of them as we walk by.
MATT: One of them is the guy that kicked him
originally. He's not the one that interfaced with
you, but he's standing by the side there, just
waiting. He watches you approach as you walk by,
and he goes--
LIAM: Guten abend.
MATT: He swallows and doesn't respond. Just looks
off in the distance.
ASHLEY: Caleb, what did you say? Guten--
LIAM: Abend.
LAURA: Good night? Hello?
LIAM: Yeah, that's--
TALIESIN: Gluten almonds.
LAURA: Have a pleasant evening.
MARISHA and ASHLEY: Gluten almonds.
TRAVIS: Where are we going?
SAM: I mean, we're going to the Pillow Trove. I
support you, Jester, but I mean--
LAURA: I support you too in all of your endeavors,
Nott.
SAM: Okay, then let's go there.
MATT: As you guys make your way through the
streets of the Tri-Spire--
LIAM: Excuse me, apologies. I pull Beau backward
by the arm. And-- no. Long enough until we fall
back a bit, and wait to see that the group is not
paying attention.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: Can you get me into that library tomorrow?
MARISHA: Yeah. I told you a fucking secret though.
I also kind of told Yasha the secret. You and
Yasha know the secret.
LIAM: Okay.
MARISHA: It's not really that much of a secret.
LIAM: Okay, but the library is a thing that we can
do before we leave this city?
MARISHA: Yeah. As long as nothing crazy happens,
I'm assuming.
LIAM: I am just hoping to look at books. Is that
all right?
MARISHA: I know. I know exactly what you want to
do. Yeah, should be all right.
LIAM: Good. Great.
MARISHA: What are you looking for, just more
spells? Or anything else in particular?
LIAM: No, I mean, spells you can find, you know,
digging in 1000 year old laboratories. I want to
learn. I want what is not readily available to
all.
MARISHA: Okay.
LIAM: I don't know if that is something that I
would be allowed to look at. What kind of
clearance do you have?
MARISHA: They're not going to let you see the
super secretive weird shit in the back.
LIAM: History?
MARISHA: Yeah, there's tons of history, man. They
forced history down my throat.
LIAM: Okay, this is good.
MARISHA: Hey, wait though.
LIAM: Oh, that's two times I've tried to bail out
of this conversation.
MARISHA: I know. Real good at it. Why are you
afraid of fire?
TRAVIS: Great segue.
LIAM: Uh. Well.
MARISHA: I'm just saying, I just want to know
because I'm going to be taking you around books,
and your relationship with fire is, you know.
LIAM: Are you going to set the books on fire?
MARISHA: No, are you going to set the books on
fire?
LIAM: I'm going to read them.
MARISHA: I'll take you in the library if you tell
me why you're afraid of fire.
SAM: (whispering) Oh, manipulation!
MARISHA: One secret traded for another. It's a
fair price, I think.
LIAM: Is there anyone around?
MATT: There's the group ahead of you, maybe 15
feet, and you're approaching the exterior of the
Pillow Trove.
LAURA: I'm giving Yasha a piggy-back ride.
MARISHA: Do you know where to find me when you're
ready?
MATT: Do you consent to this piggy-back ride?
ASHLEY: Yeah, I have my feet linked so I can
monkey piggy-back ride.
MATT: That's amazing. There's the Zauber Spire,
glistening and lit from beneath. Assembled, and no
longer akimbo. You guys approach the exterior of
the Pillow Trove. There's these steps that ascend
to the entryway, the arched door frame, and you
enter the beautiful--
MARISHA: I'll take you to the library as soon as I
get my payment. Drinks?
SAM: We're out in public, and we're in front of a
hotel.
MARISHA: Inside the hotel has drinks.
LAURA: I like that you have a handle on your mug,
but you don't use the handle.
MARISHA: Well, it's a little unbalanced. I have to
choose if I'm going to commit to the handle, or if
I'm going to commit to the cup.
LAURA: Maybe do the thing you just did.
MARISHA: This is not bad.
LIAM: But the handle gets-- I do the same thing
with this cup. I grab it by this the whole time.
MATT: As you make your way into the--
LIAM: How do you do it, Sam?
MATT: The Pillow Trove, in its beautiful marvel
presentation there awaits you as you come into the
well-lit interior. There's a number of candles
that are hanging on small hooks in the walls, and
dangle there, and the flames flicker to light the
archway, and the inside. There you see, sitting at
the table, going through a stack of parchment, is
Madam Luenna, who you had briefly seen before in
this beautiful red dress.
LAURA: She's gorgeous. Hey, that lady, that's who
I was trying to look like that night, you
remember, when we were at the-- yeah.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: Well kept, almost bouncy brunette hair, and
golden eyes, and she smiles as you enter. "Hello,
"how might I help you this evening?"
LAURA: Hi, do you remember me? I was here before.
MATT: "I do remember, yes. Good to see you."
LAURA: You too. Did you know we just won in the
Victory Pit?
MATT: "I did not. I did not attend that portion of
the festival, but congratulations!"
LAURA: Thank you, we're kind of famous now.
MATT: "That's wonderful."
LAURA: We think we might stay here tonight, too,
because we thought it would be nice for The Pillow
Trove to have famous people staying here for you.
MATT: "But of course. Is that a room for each of
you?"
MARISHA: She's an Instagram model!
LAURA: It depends on what you want to offer us as
the Victories of the Victory Pit.
MATT: "Well, I'm happy to offer you rooms at the
discounted rate of the charging price we give to
"it. It's still an establishment."
LAURA: Oh, yes, but we would tell everybody we
stayed here all the time.
MATT: "Well, it doesn't work that way, my dear."
LAURA: I'm really bad at persuading people today,
apparently.
SAM: Do you want me to try?
LAURA: I'm doing a really bad job. I have a
package probably here anyway, so I'm going to
check on that. I'll let everybody else talk to you
about how famous we are now.
MATT: "All right. How many rooms would you like?"
TRAVIS: I think two will do just fine.
MATT: "Two rooms. All right."
MARISHA: However many can bunk together, I guess.
MATT: Okay. Two rooms, purchased for the night.
If I recall correctly, that would put you around four gold.
LAURA: That's it?! Four gold! Do you know how much
she wanted to charge me before? I'm going to leave
it though, because I am walking away. I'm at the
front desk.
ASHLEY: Four gold for two rooms?
MATT: For each room.
TRAVIS: I'll cover the fellas' room. Here's four
gold.
MARISHA: Yeah. Here's four more for me.
MATT: This was her ceding to the Victory Pit
victory and return customer price. Jester, what
are you doing?
LAURA: I'm going to see if my package is here from
my mom.
MATT: Okay, so you head to where you went
previously, which is a little side chamber.
There's a young woman there waiting, who is
falling asleep at the desk. "Oh, I'm sorry! I
"didn't see you there. Can I help you?"
LAURA: I blend in with my environment very often.
It's common.
MATT: "Oh. Well, very well done."
LAURA: I have a package here, probably.
MATT: "Name?"
LAURA: Jester.
MATT: "Jester. Hold on just a second." She gets up
and walks out of the room. A minute passes. Two
minutes pass.
TRAVIS: Anything on the desk of value?
MATT: On the desk of this woman who has left?
There looks to be a small oil lantern set there
that's flickering. It's well-made.
TRAVIS: Nice pen or anything?
MATT: No, it looks like she took it with her.
TRAVIS: I keep waiting.
MATT: About five minutes pass before she enters
with a small parcel under her arm, and goes, "I
"believe this is to you, Jester, correct?" It's a
small box about that big, it says "Jester" written
in nice handwriting on it.
LAURA: Oh yes, that would be the one I'm
expecting. Thank you so much!
SAM: It came?
LAURA: It came, I guess! See, I told you my mom is
really cool, you guys!
SAM: I'm sorry I doubted you!
LAURA: Oh my gosh!
TALIESIN: We're all going to be here to see this
open, right?
LAURA: (whispers) It's probably a lot of money, so
we should open it up in the rooms.
TALIESIN: Very fair.
TRAVIS: Thank you for your help. We'll retire for
the evening.
SAM: Do we typically tip when someone--
MATT: She does have her hand open.
LAURA: Oh, here. Of course, of course! Here's two
gold for you.
SAM: Two gold? Jesus!
LAURA: I'm very wealthy now!
MATT: Thank you very much, madam. Have a wonderful
night and stay here at The Pillow Trove.
LAURA: Now we don't have to worry about things
anymore, you guys!
MATT: As you guys head back, the keys are given
out to both of you. The madam leads you up to your
chambers. On your way up, she goes, "Are there any
other services that you will require while you're
"staying here this evening to celebrate?"
SAM: What services are available?
MATT: "All kinds of services."
MARISHA: Bottle service?
MATT: "Wine can be delivered. Companionship can be
provided."
TRAVIS: Oh shit!
TALIESIN: Massage?
ASHLEY: What kind of companionship do you have
here available?
MATT: "Ah, well--" You see her trying to find the
words for it. She goes, "Likely the best kind of
"companionship you can find."
LAURA: Not the best kind.
SAM: The best available.
TRAVIS: You don't happen to work with the Ruby of
the Sea, do you?
MATT: "No, I know of her. She has a reputation.
But we have fine companions here as well, to--"
LAURA: She has the best reputation, you know.
MATT: "She has a great reputation, yes. But she
works outside of the Empire. Should you be
"interested, we have a number of individuals across
the spectrum who would be happy to lend you an
"ear, and help ease your mind."
MARISHA: Jester does that too.
LAURA: Hmm? Who does that?
MARISHA: Lend an ear. Give advice. Ease your mind.
LAURA: Oh, I do ease people's minds.
MARISHA: Just saying that's how it sounded before,
too.
SAM: Yasha, if you were to partake of a companion,
what kind of companion are you interested in? Is
it like a beast type of a thing, or--
LAURA: Like a tall one or a short one?
ASHLEY: I don't know, just one that I-- maybe
lots?
TRAVIS: Maybe lots?
LAURA: What color eyes do you like the most? Do
you want people with one color eye and the other
color eye, like you--
MATT: "How about you come and find me when you've
decided whether or not?"
MARISHA: Is there like a-- never mind.
TRAVIS: Jester, shall we?
LAURA: Yes, yes.
MATT: The madam leaves.
LIAM: Can I ask an out-of-character question? As a
citizen of the Empire, how much does Caleb already
know about the Cobalt folk?
MATT: The Cobalt Soul? You know of them, in the
way that you know of the people at City Hall that
keep all the records of buildings and such. You
know it exists, everyone knows it's part of the
structure, but nobody really pays much attention
because it's a place of learning beyond what the
usual learning process is. Certain people would.
MARISHA: Like the public libraries of today.
LIAM: Right, you're a librarian.
MATT: Kind of, yeah. People know it
exists, but the few people that really take an
interest in it either end up pursuing it, or
adjacently to it. Those people end up acquiring
more knowledge and end up becoming more prominent in
the society. It's almost an unused resource,
unfortunately.
LIAM: Their political affiliation?
MATT: Within the Empire? They're one of the many
sanctioned places of worship for the Knowing
Mistress. But they're with the Empire, they
function within the Empire, and the individuals
that run each Archive are appointed by the Crown.
As with all places of worship in the kingdom,
whoever helms those locations-- the High Priest,
the High Archivist, whoever they are-- they are
appointed by the Crown and work directly for the
Empire. All religion here is employed by the
Empire at the highest point.
TALIESIN: So long as there's a Cobalt Soul
Scholastic Fair, really.
LAURA: (gasps) Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark?
MARISHA: Yes! I want my pencil set!
MATT: That's after winter, unfortunately. You have
to wait until spring for those to come around
again. God, I miss those.
TRAVIS: Shit. Everybody got those gifts brought to
the room.
MARISHA: It felt like a festival inside your
school.
MATT: Yeah, it was amazing.
LAURA: Do they still have those?
ASHLEY: Let's make one for adults!
MATT: Guys! Reading's cool! No, legitimately, it
is.
MARISHA: Support 826LA! Thank you to those who
did.
MATT: You head to your rooms at the Pillow Trove.
LAURA: Okay, when we get the money, we should all
go out and buy new outfits, and we should go have
a feast, and maybe we can buy new clothes for the
horses too, because I bet they would really like that.
ASHLEY: But you don't need to give us money.
LAURA: It's for everyone! I open up the box that
says my name right on it. It says it right here,
my name.
MATT: First off, the package, as you shake it a
bit, it has various objects inside of it. It
rattles a bit.
LAURA: It's not as heavy as I expected it to be.
MATT: No.
SAM: Maybe it's a check.
LAURA: That's probably what it is. I have no idea
what that is.
MATT: It's about eight to ten pounds. As you open
the package and unwrap it, it's pretty well
wrapped, you open the parcel and on the inside
there is a bag of coin about that big there.
LAURA: It's probably platinum, because it's
lighter.
MATT: There is a small bundle that's wrapped with
twine, and there's a letter.
LAURA: Ooh! (singing)
SAM: Beautiful handwriting.
LAURA: Yes. She's really amazing. Do you want me
to read it out loud?
SAM: Yes, of course!
LAURA: Okay, okay. "My darling Jester," that's me,
"I do so hope your journeys have been safe,
"fruitful, and wondrous. I've always wished you to
see the beauty of the world around us, and while
"the circumstances perhaps were not the most
favorable, it has allowed you the freedom to
"become your own woman."
SAM: That's nice!
LAURA: I spent a lot of time inside, I told you
this, yes. Okay. "To show all of Wildemount and
"beyond the gifts you have to offer, and the joys
you have to give. My sweet girl, how I miss you."
I miss her too, so much! "Your laughter, your
energy, I've been sick in your absence." Oh,
because I'm such a healer, you know, and I took
care of her, so that makes me so sad. "But it is
"the trial any mother must endure, I suppose.
You're on your own now, and while I will always
"miss that little girl, I'm equally eager to see
the woman you will become. Tensions here are less,
"but not absent. Given time, I hope things will
vanish into the past, and you may come to see me
"once more! Until then, I have included a small
trifle, some things to keep you comfortable,
"creating, and free. I love you. Your Ruby," my
mama, "Marian Lavorre." She doesn't tell many
people her real name, you know.
SAM: Marian? That's a beautiful name.
LAURA: Isn't it?
TRAVIS: That's a nice letter.
LAURA: I love my mom so much.
ASHLEY: It looks like she loves you very much,
too.
LAURA: Let's see what she sent us, okay? I open
the little package.
MATT: Okay. The package contains a vial about that
big, filled with dark liquid. You shake it there.
LAURA: Do I recognize it?
MATT: You do. She keeps it, usually, by her
materials. It's a bottle of her lavender perfume.
LAURA, SAM, and MARISHA: Ooh!
SAM: Chanel!
MARISHA: That's what I was going to say! Wow!
LAURA: It smells really nice! Everybody really
likes this smell!
MATT: It's a smell that's very much affiliated
with her, and as you smell it, a wave of nostalgia
comes over you. Your childhood flashes through you
again. Within that bundle as well, you see there
are five small ink vials of different colors.
There's a red ink, there's a blue ink, there's a
green ink, and then two black.
LAURA: Blue, green, yes!
SAM: Color printer.
MATT: Magenta, cyan. (laughs)
LAURA: This is so I can keep painting. I used up a
lot of the paint that I had at the festival.
TALIESIN: Hmm?
MATT: And 200 gold in the pouch.
LAURA: 200 gold?!
SAM: That's a lot of money! For all of us.
LAURA: That is a really good amount of money. 200
gold is a lot of money, you guys.
TRAVIS: Are you expecting more?
LAURA: Well, I mean, when we left, you know, I had
a lot more than that. But, you know, it's because
I'm growing up, and we probably are learning about
how to spend money better, so she's teaching me,
probably, that 5000 gold is not needed every
time.
SAM: She gave you 5000 gold before?
LAURA: (panicked exhale) I really thought there
was going to be more money in here.
SAM: Did you tell her that you were out of money?
LAURA: I did! I did tell her that!
SAM: And this is all she sent?
LAURA: But you know what, that's totally fine! 200
gold is really generous of her!
SAM: Maybe. I don't know your mother, maybe she
was testing the postal system. Sending a small
amount as a test. You can write back and say, "Got
it safely, feel free to send more."
LAURA: That's a really good idea.
SAM: Maybe that was it. Because I wouldn't want to
send 5000 gold over the mail system. There's
people out there who steal the mail!
TRAVIS: (laughter) Whoosh! (imitates dramatic
music)
MARISHA: You made an incredibly excellent point.
It is so easy to defraud the mail.
ASHLEY: Plus, 200 gold is a lot of money. That's
more than I pretty much have right now.
LAURA: It is a lot of money!
TALIESIN: It's more than we used to make in a
year, easily.
MARISHA: It's a lot to send somebody in a birthday
card.
LAURA: Caleb?
LIAM: What?
LAURA: I'm really sorry about that one time when
you were talking about money with me, okay?
LIAM: Oh, that's fine.
SAM: The most important thing is that she loves
and cares for you, and wants to support you from
afar.
LAURA: That is really great. She sent my favorite
colors. Red and blue and green and black. Those
are my favorites to paint with!
SAM: Those are the absolute most basic you can
have.
LAURA: You can mix them. She knew I had a lot of
white already on me, so I can make lots of
colors.
SAM: Mostly paper is white, too.
LAURA: Well, it doesn't work like that.
SAM: I don't know how it works.
TRAVIS: Are we going back out, or are we turning
in? Some of us are beat to shit.
LAURA: Do you guys want to split up the 200?
MARISHA: Jester, why don't you keep that?
ASHLEY: Jester, it's your money.
MARISHA: We just kicked ass and made 200. We'll do
it again tomorrow.
LAURA: That is true. I'm going to put this in a
special place, so that we have it in case we need
it. Okay?
MARISHA: Sure. The emergency fund.
LAURA: Exactly. This will be "Mom's Emergency
Fund."
MARISHA: Sure. Yeah.
LAURA: I'm going to paint that on the bag. "Mom's
Emergency Fund."
TRAVIS: All right, well, I'm getting tired. I'm
going to turn in to the other room, if anybody
feels like joining. Congratulations, Jester.
That's very exciting.
TALIESIN: How deep of a sleeper are you?
TRAVIS: I don't know, I feel like after a day like
today, pretty fucking deep.
TALIESIN: Cool. We'll find out. I'm going to go
downstairs
MATT: Okay. All right, so you head downstairs.
TALIESIN: I'm going to at least need the best
masseuse they have who's also willing to do other
interesting things. And someone to feed me and
talk to me as the entire thing is going on.
MATT: The madam goes, "Well, I can definitely
provide those requests. That sounds like a two
"companion request."
TALIESIN: I would imagine so.
SAM: Wait, just so I'm clear: Do you get a full
release massage while you're eating a steak or
something?
TALIESIN: Fruit. Don't be crass. That's just
weird.
MATT: "Preference? Male, female, in between?"
TALIESIN: Best hands, best conversationalist.
Surprise me.
MATT: "Very well. That will run you 20 gold."
TALIESIN: I pay it, and you can sleep through it
or not, if you like.
TRAVIS: I'm just going to be turning my face to
the wall.
TALIESIN: Welcome back to college, man!
TRAVIS: College roommates.
MATT: As the rest of you are turning in for the
evening, to relax. You all eventually get
yourselves comfortable. Caleb, you're reading
through your book. Then, at the door, (knocking)
of the male room, and it opens up. There you see a
young man and a young woman both enter, in nice
silk robes.
LAURA: Oh, it's in the room?
TALIESIN: Oh yes. Had you not put that together
yet?
MATT: Both human.
TALIESIN: We got two rooms.
MATT: "All right, so, who requested the service?"
TALIESIN: Oh excellent! Are you on the bed?
TRAVIS: Not anymore.
TALIESIN: Okay. I'm going to take the bed, and I'm
going to take my full massage and otherwise.
ASHLEY: And otherwise?
TALIESIN: If you would also like some food, I'm
sure they'd be willing to--
MATT: They bring in a small platter of grapes, and
other fruit.
TRAVIS: I'll take an apple and say: Godspeed. I
will leave the room.
MATT: Caleb?
LIAM: I leave the room and actually run downstairs
and ask the front desk if they have another room.
MATT: "Yes, of course, another room can be
provided."
LIAM: How much is that?
MATT: "For your troupe, that would be four gold
for a third."
LIAM: Excellent. Ja. Here you go.
MATT: "All right, here's your key. It's two doors
down from the one on the left that you originally
"purchased with your friends."
MARISHA: Is it the four ladies in a room?
TRAVIS: I'm doing the old college hallway sit.
Just outside the door like-- That's my room.
Occupied.
LAURA: Can we hear? Are we next door to this room?
Can we hear what's happening?
MATT: Make a perception check.
TALIESIN: Oh, I'm sure at the very least I knock
on the door and say; I'm having fruit if anyone
wants anything.
SAM: I rolled a 14.
LAURA: I rolled a seven.
MARISHA: I rolled a 16 plus-- Oh, 19?
TRAVIS: 18.
LIAM: I rolled a one. Are we done taking
donations?
MATT: Taking donations?
LIAM: You know, for 826? That's all done now,
right?
MATT: I think so, yeah.
LIAM: So now they're just straight-up bad.
MARISHA: Man, in context that was weird as fuck! I
rolled a 19.
TALIESIN: It's mostly ridiculous conversation
through this whole thing.
LAURA: Can we hear?
MATT: All you hear are giggles.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MARISHA: I poke my head out. Do I see Fjord?
MATT: You see Fjord in the hallway. Yeah.
MARISHA: Psst.
TRAVIS: Hey. How you doing?
MARISHA: You're in the most expensive hotel in 100
miles and you're in the hallway. That's real
fucking funny.
TRAVIS: Yeah. Molly got a guy and a girl that
walked in with food.
MARISHA: You want to come in our room so you're
not in the hall?
TRAVIS: Do you have people in there with food?
MARISHA: I have Nott and Jester and Jester has
pastries.
LAURA: Yasha's in here, too!
MARISHA: We could order room service. You want to
come in and order room service?
TRAVIS: Yeah, that sounds fine.
MARISHA: Let's do that. We order room service.
LIAM: About when this is happening, I pull the
wire out of my coat and hold it into my palmed
hands and Message to Nott. Nott, will you find an
excuse to bring Beauregard and yourself to my room
you saw me go into?
SAM: Message received.
TRAVIS: What?
SAM: Huh? Nothing. I didn't say anything.
LAURA: You said "Message received."
SAM: I was practicing a new catchphrase.
LAURA: It's weird.
SAM: That's why I'm practicing.
LAURA: You should try a different one.
MARISHA: I kind of like it. I don't know. Like,
you hit someone--
SAM and MARISHA: Message received!
MARISHA: Yeah, that's great. I'm kind of into it!
SAM: It's a little heady.
MARISHA: Yeah. You have to unpack in the moment.
SAM: Yeah. Hey, you know what? Did you order the
room service yet?
MARISHA: Yeah.
LAURA: We called down?
SAM: I think the phone's broken, so maybe me and
Beau should go deliver the order downstairs.
LAURA: Oh, okay.
MARISHA: I mean, yeah.
LAURA: Yes. Tell them we want cookies and milk for
sure.
ASHLEY: A rat--
SAM: Oh! We didn't eat our rats yet!
ASHLEY: Well, we can get them here, and then save
those for another--
SAM: I mean, they'll die!
MATT: The rats are currently back at the Leaky
Tap.
SAM: Oh.
LAURA: Oh, that's right.
MATT: Well, no, you haven't. No, you still have
them, you haven't gone back.
SAM: Should we toast now?
ASHLEY: Well, yeah. I am pretty hungry.
LAURA: But Yasha likes to cook hers, remember.
ASHLEY: You don't like to cook yours?
SAM: Uh, no.
ASHLEY: Nott, that's crazy. I mean, I'll try it,
but I feel like it's much-- Do you want me to have
them cook it? Have you ever had it cooked?
SAM: No.
ASHLEY: With a little salt, little pepper.
LAURA: I don't know if they will cook rats here,
though.
ASHLEY: No?
LAURA: Most of the places that charge a lot of
money for rooms don't usually cook rats. But they
do have other animals that they will cook for you.
ASHLEY: What do they have?
LAURA: Probably like a cow, or a deer, or an
owlbear or something.
MARISHA: How about this: we'll tell them to give
us the chef's choice. The special.
MATT: The giggling gets louder from the other
room.
TRAVIS: Oh god. I can't tell who that's coming
from.
MARISHA: Oh god. Come on, let's go.
SAM: Give me your rat and I'll have them cook it
and bring it back for you.
MARISHA: We're spending enough money on this
place.
ASHLEY: Are you sure you won't take it?
SAM: I won't eat your rat.
ASHLEY: Do you promise me?
SAM: Do you promise not to kill me in my sleep
because you're a Xhorhasian spy?
TALIESIN: (loud giggling)
SAM: If I don't eat your rat, you can't kill me in
my sleep because you're a Xhorhasian spy.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: With a (squeak) as you pull it away.
SAM: All right. Let's go order some food.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: You make your way to Caleb's room?
SAM: As soon as we get out of the room, I say: I
was told to bring you to Caleb. I don't know why.
MARISHA: Can we go order food first? Then we'll go
hit Caleb, because it's going to be, like, 45-60
minutes to deliver it.
SAM: Sure. Right, it does take a while to deliver.
All right, we go order food first.
MATT: All right, you go order food, for the
breadth of the evening meals it costs we'll say
one gold, five silver for food for everybody.
LAURA: What do you guys want to do in the room
now?
SAM: I'm going to send a few Messages out. Caleb,
what room are you in? Caleb, what room are you in?
Caleb, what room?
LIAM: If I eventually catch it, I give Nott the
room number.
SAM: Oh, okay. He's in room six.
MATT: You guys make your way to Caleb's room.
SAM: (knocking)
MARISHA: (knocking)
LAURA: Jesus.
LIAM: Come in.
SAM: I brought the monk. Are we discussing some
escape plans?
LIAM: Potentially. You know, we're leaving soon,
and Beauregard has an in at one of the bigger
libraries in the city and I want to go there
before we leave.
SAM: Excellent, let's go. Tomorrow, right? When
they're open.
LIAM: Yes, but Beauregard has given me a
condition. She had some questions for me, and I
would like to answer them, but I don't feel right
telling her and not telling you, so I would love
for you to stay here for a few minutes.
SAM: Sure, yes, whatever you want, Caleb. It
sounds serious.
LIAM: Beauregard, may I ask you a question to
start?
MARISHA: Yeah.
LIAM: How do you feel about the Empire?
MARISHA: Oh, I mean--
LIAM: Are you in favor of how things are going
here?
MARISHA: No, but I'm not in favor of many things.
I don't like a lot of things. Kind of have a
problem with authority and they're like the
epitome of authority. I watched my father
sacrifice a lot to try and impress those people.
I'm not sure what it was for. Seems like a lot.
LIAM: Are you comfortable with business as usual?
MARISHA: What? How do you mean?
LIAM: Do you approve of how the Empire is going?
MARISHA: I'm not super invested in the
political spectrum, I just don't want any part of
it. So no? I think it could be better. No.
LIAM: Is she lying to me about being not
invested?
MATT: I mean, that's up to you if you want to--
MARISHA: No.
MATT: As far as I know, yeah, she's being pretty
forthright.
LIAM: Do I have to shout, "Insight check," or--
MATT: No, it's up to her whether or not she
decides if she needs to or not.
MARISHA: Marisha's telling you, Beau is being
genuine.
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: Oh. Not super invested about how the empire
is going?
MARISHA: I think--
TRAVIS: Everybody's lying!
MARISHA: I have no investment in their success or
failure. I think most of them tend to be scumbags
who want monetary and influential gain, and I
think they treat their poor pretty shitty and they
treat their elite pretty great, and I think that's
sucky. Yeah, I think they're garbage people, but
Molly thinks I'm a garbage person--
SAM: Trash person.
MARISHA: Sorry, a trash person. If they're garbage
people, I'm their rare cousin, the trash person.
LIAM: I would like to get if my reading on if that
is genuine or not. Yeah?
MARISHA: Yeah.
LIAM: Okay, so, Liam asking a question, and this
is your choice. It's just an idea that popped in
my head. Could I request that everybody but Sam
and Marisha leave the table?
MATT: You can, yeah.
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: Can we get everybody else but Sam and
Marisha to leave?
LAURA: Bitch! Fine, bitch! I didn't want to listen
anyway, bitch!
SAM: That means you, too, Matt!
MATT: Oh, sure. Well, then!
MARISHA: Yeah, I--
TRAVIS: (yelling)
MARISHA: I watched my father sacrifice a lot to
get where he was, and I'm not sure if it was
fucking worth it. So the Empire doesn't lean
favorably in my spectrum. But I also don't care if
they really live or die or whatever.
LIAM: Well, I really want to go to the library
tomorrow.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LIAM: This may be a very stupid decision of mine.
SAM: What does she want from you?
LIAM: Would you be willing to leave with me
tomorrow if I asked you to?
SAM: Of course.
LIAM: Just the two of us?
SAM: Absolutely. Right away. Whatever you want.
But why?
MARISHA: Is the secret that valuable?
LIAM: I am going to tell you the story of how I
murdered my mother and father.
SAM: Oh!
LIAM: When I was younger, I grew up in a small
township outside of Rexxentrum called Blumenthal.
My mother's name was Una. My father's name was
Leofric. Everyone was very excited about me when I
was young. I was bright and confident. People used
to say that I glided through life and everything
just worked for me. As I got older, it became
clear that I had a knack for the arcane. Everyone
talked about this Soltryce Academy, maybe I would
go there someday. The way they do things at that
Academy, they don't take all comers, they look for
the diamond in the rough and every couple of years
they find one. But when I was a young man,
adolescent, really, they found three of us.
Another boy and a girl, and--
SAM: From your town?
LIAM: Ja, from Blumenthal. And we were
accepted.
SAM: How old were you?
LIAM: I was young.
MARISHA: What's young? Teenager?
LIAM: Yeah. Anyway, we went there. I studied for a
year. I worked so hard. It came easier to me than
the other two, but they were also very
accomplished. There were other students from other
parts of the Empire there, and a little over a
year of learning all they had to impart, I met a
man named Trent Ikithon. He became our teacher.
MARISHA: Why didn't you say anything earlier?
LIAM: Earlier when, earlier tonight? Earlier a
week ago? What do you mean?
MARISHA: When we were talking to Trent. You know
we were talking to Trent.
LIAM: After a year of studying in the main school,
Trent handpicked all three of us again, and we
left the school proper and went with him to a home
out in the countryside where he trained us. It was
a good time. We believed in the Empire, we were
going to keep it strong. He was cruel. He hurt us
a lot. Made us go through extreme circumstances,
but we got strong. I also fell in love, but that's
another story.
MARISHA: One of the other students.
LIAM: Yeah. We rose through the ranks and it was
the Empire over all, and eventually, he wanted to
test our allegiance, so strangers were brought
in-- traitors. Disgusting people, traitors to
this empire, and we killed them.
SAM: You were just students?
LIAM: Mm-hmm.
MARISHA: He made you executioners?
LIAM: We wanted to be.
MARISHA: Caleb, that's deeply fucked up, you know
that, right?
LIAM: Yeah. A few months of studying, of a little
bit of torture, a little bit of murdering
dissidents and traitors and deviants.
MARISHA: Then one day your parents are brought in
as traitors. No?
LIAM: No. We were ready to graduate, and the last
test of our allegiance was-- I'm getting ahead of
myself. I went on a trip home and visited my
parents and when I was there, in the middle of the
night, I awoke and overhead them talking, and went
to the stair and listened to them talk about
revolution and tearing the Empire down, and I felt
disgraced and shame for my family. My mother and
my father, who were so wonderful to me when I was
a child, and were so happy for me to go to the
Academy and believe in the Empire so much. I
went back to the school and when the three of us
were summoned and told what was expected of us, I
knew what had to be done. We went to this other
boy's home first, Eodwulf, and we stood by as he
killed his parents. We went to Astrid's house, and
had dinner with them, and she poisoned them. Then
we went to my home and we grabbed a horse cart,
and in the middle of the night, placed it against
the door to the home and I set it on fire.
MARISHA: You had to do this to graduate, to prove
your loyalty.
LIAM: Well, yeah, but it didn't exactly go
according to that plan because as soon as I heard
my mother and father screaming inside... I was so
sure. I was so sure... until I wasn't, and I broke a bit.
SAM: Did you go in after them?
LIAM: No, I went to an asylum for a number of
years. I broke. I don't remember so well what
happened to me there. It was quite a number of
years. Years later, a woman was there, and she,
another patient, put hands on me, and she took the
clouds away. She took it all away, and not just my
madness, but the fake memories that Ikithon put in
my head of my parents.
SAM: Fake memories?
LIAM: Wanting to betr-- yes.
SAM: Wait, there was a false memory? He tricked
you?
MARISHA: Into hearing their talks against the
Empire, is that what it was?
LIAM: Yes, but it doesn't matter, because I still
wanted to do it when I did it.
SAM: But you didn't know what you were doing--
LIAM: So what?
SAM: You were brainwashed.
LIAM: So what?!
SAM: Programmed.
LIAM: Doesn't matter, I should have-- I'm a
disgusting person. It doesn't matter. Anyway, all
that gone, just like that. I ran. Not right away;
I pretended like nothing had changed for several
weeks. She was stark raving mad 15 minutes later
herself, the woman who helped me. I killed one of
Trent's people there, and took this. I pull out
the necklace. This has been keeping me hidden for
years. For five years.
SAM: What do you mean, hidden?
LIAM: They can find who they want, but not with
this. They cannot find me. I would really like to
get into that library, because I would--
MARISHA: Like to run again?
LIAM: Hmm? No, I like you all.
MARISHA: You were just talking with Nott about
running tomorrow.
LIAM: Well, that all depends on you, Beauregard.
MARISHA: If I don't let you in?
LIAM: If you can keep a secret.
MARISHA: Caleb, I'm good at keeping secrets. You
heard us talking to Trent. You know he wants
Yasha, and you're the only person who knows the
atrocities that this man-- who utterly gave me the
creeps, by the way, so I'm feeling a little bit
validated in the fact that I read him pretty well--
SAM: I don't think it's--
LIAM: Anyway.
MARISHA: I'm just saying, you have a
responsibility now.
LIAM: Which is?
MARISHA: Keep this guy from hurting more people.
LIAM: Well, that's precisely why I want into this
library.
MARISHA: You want to take down Trent. Is that why
you're doing all this? You want to take down Trent?
LIAM: Among other things.
MARISHA: Ah. What are you hoping to find?
LIAM: Anybody can make lights. Anybody could send
a message through a wire. I want to bend reality
to my will.
MARISHA: Caleb, you don't, though. No one wants
that amount of power and responsibility.
LIAM: Yeah, well, I told you why I am afraid of
fire. So you are going to bring me to that
library.
MARISHA: Don't worry, I'll take you to the
library. There are two options here: you can
selfishly try and go after this guy for your own
vendetta, or you can use your motives to keep
others from getting hurt in a very similar way.
LIAM: Both of those are appealing to me.
MARISHA: All right. I know you just make dancing
lights-- or at least you can feel like you just
make dancing lights-- but those dancing lights
make sure I can punch people in the fucking face
whenever I can't see shit. A little bit of
teamwork goes a long way.
LIAM: Okay, good. I think Nott and I are going to
retire now. Maybe you can go get that food for the
others.
MARISHA: Cool, man, cool. Kick me out of the room,
I get it. Yep, all right.
SAM: You want to stay here?
MARISHA: No, I mean, you just dumped some
heavy-ass shit like that and then ask me to leave.
No, I get it, it's fine.
LIAM: Yeah.
MARISHA: All right, I'll leave.
LIAM: But you don't have to leave the table.
MARISHA: No.
LIAM: I'm not asking you to leave the table.
MARISHA: I'll keep your secret. We'll keep all
this a secret. I don't think it's anything to be
ashamed of, though.
LIAM: (laughs slightly hysterically)
MARISHA: We'll figure it out in time.
LIAM: Goodnight, Beauregard.
MARISHA: Caleb (clicks). Nott.
SAM: Good evening.
MARISHA: I have a charcuterie board coming to the
girls' room, if anybody wants any.
LIAM: (door slamming)
SAM: I go over and I throw my arms around him and
hug him. I'm so sorry. It wasn't you, it's not
your fault. It wasn't you, you were made to do it.
It's not your fault. It's not your fault. I know
you don't realize that now, but you will. This
pain that you have, that you wear all over you
like a mask, it's just that, and you can take it
off someday. I know it hurts, but it wasn't your
fault. I'm going to keep telling you that until
you believe me.
LIAM: Are you and I good?
SAM: What you did was awful, truly terrible,
despicable and unforgivable-- until you can
forgive it. At some point, you'll have to do that.
I swear to you that I will be at your side until
you do.
LIAM: I have an idea that can make that happen.
SAM: Really?
LIAM: Yes. It will take a lot of hard work.
SAM: A lot of books.
LIAM: And a lot of books.
SAM: I'm in. Whatever you need, just tell me and
I'll get it for you.
LIAM: I pull out the silver thread and I start
putting it around the room, and go over some
notes. I have some ideas already, some ideas I
had, and I will stay up another hour or two before
going to bed.
MATT: Can we retrieve the rest of the group,
please? Back to the table. (sharp exhale)
SAM: Fart jokes!
MATT: We got a Caleb lore dump.
MARISHA: Huh?
MATT: Got a Caleb lore dump. As you find
yourselves reading for a bit, eventually a knock
comes at the door, and a little bit of snacks are
brought over from the side of the girls' room, if
you want some. The food arrives at your guys'
room, and the knock does come at your room, Molly.
As the food arrives, the door opens, and the
two--
TALIESIN: Oh, is the food arriving?
MATT: The food has arrived as the companions and
you have completed your evening--
TALIESIN: Okay, in that case, I am going to
enter--
SAM: You're cleaning up.
TALIESIN: Oh no, I've thought about this. I had
time to think while watching things outside. Not
you guys. I've got the remnants of the fruit. I'm
coming in with the food into their room, and I am
wearing nothing but my tapestry.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: I am your god, long may I reign. Eat of
my fruits.
MARISHA: I just ordered another fruit platter.
TALIESIN: It's good. I got through a lot of this.
MARISHA: But long may he reign. Huzzah.
LIAM: We're still pre-sleepy time?
MATT: If there's something else you want to do.
LIAM: No, I want to go to the bathroom.
MATT: Then you may go to the bathroom if you'd
like, and we're going to come back in the
morning.
LIAM: Thanks, Dad!
MATT: Whenever the rest of our group returns?
SAM: Laura and Travis went home, they have a--
Yeah, Dateline was on?
MARISHA: 60 Minutes.
MATT: Well, until they get here--
SAM: Oh, no, Ashley's gone, now. It's just us.
TALIESIN: If anybody had any questions they want
to ask. Laura's in the bathroom--
MATT: Gotcha, no worries. (singing) Pregnancy.
TALIESIN: Just looking forward to wearing a giant
Platinum Dragon. That's all I wanted.
MATT: As the evening draws to a close, you all get
probably the finest rest you've had in a while.
It's extravagant rooms, the inner chambers are
well-decorated, the morning window-- as the
drapery is left open, the sun comes through in
golden beams--
LAURA: Oh no, we missed our stuff.
SAM: It's morning-time now.
MATT: It's the morning time. You guys come to
consciousness.
ASHLEY: We were going to play some Truth or Dare.
LAURA: Well, it's fine. We did. We totally did.
MATT: You gather yourselves. What are you guys
doing with the day?
LAURA: Well, I guess we should go back to the
Leaky Tap there, and--
TRAVIS: Can I ask for everybody to leave the room,
except for--
(laughter)
MATT: All right.
TALIESIN: We have a cart.
LAURA: Oh yeah, we can load it up.
MARISHA: Where are we going, before our errands?
Or after our errands? What's the destination?
TALIESIN: I'm going to get the map.
MARISHA: Oh, the map!
SAM: Are we all back together again? Over
breakfast?
MATT: Yeah, you guys have all woken up and gotten
together again. We'll say for purposes of this
that breakfast has been provided, like brought to
your room as part of the staying over, but you
finish your morning.
SAM: Like, continental, or like French toast?
MATT: Upper-end continental.
LAURA: You guys totally missed it. We had the
best time in the room while you guys were gone
for a very long time.
MATT: There you go!
ASHLEY: Fjord and Jester made out.
LAURA: We had a crazy orgy in our room and you
guys didn't even want to be part of it.
SAM: Insight check! 11.
TALIESIN: I'm happy to move in whatever direction
anybody likes.
LAURA: Oh, you know I'm lying.
ASHLEY: Wait, I roll, too. I roll, too, because I
was part of the lie.
SAM: I think she's lying.
MATT: You backing her up?
LAURA: Did you roll shit, too?
ASHLEY: I rolled a four.
MATT: Yeah, they're lying through their teeth.
LAURA: Man.
SAM: Before we leave, shouldn't we get a lay of
the land? I mean, I trust my own ears, they're
very large, but I barely heard half of a
conversation. I don't even know really what's
happening other than I heard that there's a war
happening.
TALIESIN: What's the good side of this, then?
What's your best-case scenario?
SAM: Well maybe we should do some snooping around
town and find out if there indeed is a war before
we leave town.
TALIESIN: If they lock the gates, or start
conscripting--
LAURA: Will they do that?
TALIESIN: I don't know what they'd do. All I know
is I don't want to hang out, and obviously we've
made a bit of a reputation for ourselves.
LAURA: But then, any city we go into, won't they
lock us in that city?
SAM: We also have allies here. We have The
Gentleman--
LAURA: (gasp)
TALIESIN: He's an ally now.
LAURA: You know what we should do? You guys! Why
don't we talk to Dolan about it? He would tell us!
SAM: Dolan! We haven't even checked in with him!
MARISHA: Oh, shit! We forgot to check in with
him!
LAURA: He was at the party last night! He was with
that really cool guy from Marquet.
SAM: We have a bunch of allies. We can't just up
and leave without at least saying, like, we're out.
LAURA: Let's go talk to Dolan.
TALIESIN: Have you literally never left a town
without telling everybody because, you know,
there's a possibility you're going to get
conscripted to go fight a war?
SAM: I have never had allies before.
LAURA: Let's go talk to Dolan, and then we'll
leave, and we'll go to Hupperdook and then we'll
go to Nogvurot.
SAM: Because those are funny-sounding names?
LAURA: No, because Hupperdook is a funny
sounding name! Then Nogvurot is where our friends
from the other mercenary group live.
SAM: It's also where there was a string of
kidnappings.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: See, that sounds like our speed. Not
conscripting into fighting on the front lines.
LAURA: We can disguise you as a kid and they could
kidnap you and you could fight them from the
inside.
SAM: I don't like this idea.
TRAVIS: How about we go say hi to Dolan, we'll run
by The Gentleman, let him know that we're thinking
about bouncing, and then we'll be on our way.
ASHLEY: May I take a look at that map, Jester?
LAURA: Of course, Yasha!
MARISHA: Does anyone know who funds the Victory
Pit?
TRAVIS: I'm sure it's the city, right?
MARISHA: Probably.
LAURA: We could ask Dolan about that, too.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Don't think they don't know our names
now.
LAURA: Can I say that while it was last night, I
painted a picture with the new paint for my mom?
MATT: Sure.
LAURA: I'm going to ask the front desk if they
will send it to her. Back to our house in the
Menagerie Coast.
MATT: Yeah. They're less paints and more colored
inks. You can purchase paints wherever you want
to, but these are like--
LAURA: I mean, I have paints I guess.
MATT: But you have paints to do it.
LAURA: Okay, I'll paint it with the stuff I have.
MATT: You paint her a little picture.
LAURA: Ooh, colored inks? I didn't realize that!
MARISHA: Gel pens!
MATT: (clicking)
LAURA: Ooh.
MATT: Postage for sending it off is simple enough
at that size to be about five silver from here to
Nicodranas.
LAURA: Okay.
TALIESIN: I think we should be careful, because
the longer we're in town, the more people we talk
to, the more people might decide that they're
invested in us staying.
TRAVIS: Fair enough. We'll keep our eyes open. To
Dolan's then.
MATT: To Dolan's first?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MARISHA: You guys go to Dolan's. You want to take
a field trip?
LIAM: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Where are y'all going?
LIAM: We have to take a trip to Pumat's for
supplies and then--
TRAVIS: Insight check! Just kidding. I'm good.
MATT: All right. Who's going where?
MARISHA: I go wherever Caleb goes.
SAM: Me, too.
LIAM: Pumat, library.
MATT: Pumat, library. The rest of you guys are
going to Dolan's?
TALIESIN: To Dolan's. We'll meet up at Pumat's.
MARISHA: Okay. That sounds good. You guys,
Dolan's; we'll go library.
LIAM: We'll do library first. Then we'll pull
Matt.
MARISHA: We'll pull Matt.
TALIESIN: We can pull Matt's soul.
MARISHA: Pull Matt Key.
MATT: So. As you guys--
LIAM: (silly voice) Hey, you got your chocolate in
my peanut butter!
MATT: As you guys exit the Pillow Trove, and you
make your way outside of the Tri-Spires, the first
thing of note is the tone and the mood of the city
has shifted dramatically.
MARISHA: Fuck!
SAM: It's a more festive atmosphere?
LIAM: It's a party, girl.
MATT: No. First things first. The skies are gray.
What little bits of sunlight came through the last
day have completely absconded. The sky is covered
in gray, nearly stormy clouds. There is an air of
stress and question in the streets as you start
seeing Righteous Brand groups making their way
through. As you make your way through the north
side of the Pentamarket, one of the town criers
comes by shouting, "War declared on the Kryn by
the King in retribution of attack on eastern
"garrisons!"
TRAVIS: Oh, shit.
MATT: Another one, a few moments later further
down the way shouts out, "Righteous Brand
"mobilizing east to protect our families! Spare
what provisions you can to ensure victory and
"support our defenders!" There are clusters of
Righteous Brand groups, the full armored military
outside of the Signet Wall that have come into the
streets and are basically picking up provisions,
asking for donations from anyone that can spare
things for this scenario. They're grabbing horses
from nearby stables, and it seems like since the
close of the festival, through the night and into
the morning, preparations have already kicked in
on the military side.
TRAVIS: Maybe not to Dolan's, then.
LAURA: Why?
TRAVIS: Because we got to get the fuck out of
here.
LAURA: Well, are we still all together, or are we
already split up?
MATT: You're already split up.
LAURA: There's no way we'll be able to get out of
here before--
MARISHA: Back to Pumat's.
TALIESIN: We're going to do our best. We're going
to see how it's going to be.
LIAM: Did we hear that, though?
MARISHA: I'm assuming we all heard it as we
split.
MATT: You heard bits of it as you split off. You
guys heard a bit. It says, "Crick incursion
"threatening imperial borders! The Starosta
recommends armed escorts for travel across the
"valley!" A lot of these Righteous Brand soldiers
are also saying goodbye to their families. There's
a lot of people in big embraces with their
children or with their parents, and there's very
much the air of the morning before the big shift
begins. The Crownsguard themselves are doing the
best to keep the peace and inform people and not
keep individuals from freaking out as much, but
you do see a few arguments breaking out in the
streets and there's that general tension of,
"What's happening? What's going on? How bad is
this?" But everything seems relatively under
control. The Signet Wall, which is to the north
side of the city, which is where all the military
is usually situated-- you don't have a view beyond
the wall, of course, but you can see that's where
a large part of the Righteous Brand is emerging
into the city from. Yeah, there is a definite
building presence, and tension in the city in
preparation for the shift eastward. You guys are
heading to Dolan's still?
LAURA: Are we still?
MATT: Or what are you doing?
LAURA: I mean, it's obvious we're at war now.
There's not much to talk to him about, huh?
TRAVIS: That's what I mean.
LAURA: Maybe we should see if we should be some
armed guards for some rich people going across the
valley before, so that we have, you know.
TALIESIN: Just a thought to check the board; also
get our stuff from the Leaky Tap.
LAURA: Yeah, that's what we can do while they're
at the library.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
ASHLEY: That's a good idea.
MATT: You guys are heading back to the Leaky Tap?
LAURA: We're going to go by the board first. The
job board?
MATT: Oh, the Taskboard.
LAURA: To see about being armed guards, and then
we're going to go to the--
TALIESIN: Possible private escorts. Private
escort, either north or--
MARISHA: Might be our best way out of town,
actually. Good idea.
MATT: Okay. You guys head to the Taskboard outside
of the King's Hall, the four of you. There's the
original posting "Seeking or paying for any
information on Myriad or unlawful activity within
"the city." There's the reward on rebel gatherings,
anti-crown rhetoric that you've seen. There is a
shift to the recent Righteous Brand convincing
letter. It says, "War has found our doorstep.
"Defend your family from the Xhorhasian hordes by
sword or shield. Good pay and adventurous living
"as a soldier of the Righteous Brand. Seek Leopold
Wanstiker at the Marrow Keep in the Signet Wall."
The other "Proof of others' worship of heretical
gods paid in gold." You don't see any immediate
postings for armed guards but those are probably
done privately through the merchant guilds.
However, as you're looking at the board a voice
goes: "Oh, well that's perfect!" You see
Voloshin, the Keeper of the Hall who you had
previously interfaced with when you did your job
in the sewers, comes out in his robes and he says,
"We'd actually sent a page to look for you but
"they must've missed you. The Lawmaster wishes to
speak with you, would you come with me?"
TRAVIS: Of course.
LAURA: Yeah, of course we will.
TALIESIN: Sure.
MATT: "Providence it is. Enter, please." He leads
you inside the hall of the king and there are the
two archways between the clerk's center and the
Lawbearer's small shrine within the chamber. He
leads you down the right hallway past two sets of
doors and there's a third door on the right that
is partially ajar. As you enter it, you see a
spacious if rather minimalistic chamber. It's a
bare chamber beyond a bookcase, the desk, with a
long bench in front of it, and a series of three
small windows where the sunlight comes through--
or the light, there's not really sunlight at the
moment because of the weather. Beyond that, it's
white marble and fairly empty. There at the desk
you see, her arms sprawled looking down over
clusters of parchments, the Lawmaster Orentha
Stonegrasp. Her gray hair has tumbled past her
shoulders and her bangs have been pulled back like
a natural circlet, keeping it out of her eyes. He
pushes you into the chamber, she has a dark brown fur
robe on. The cold morning air makes the room,
especially the dark marble, very cold. She keeps
it on for warmth. She looks up from the papers and
greets you with a smile and goes, "Thank you for
"coming. That was mighty fast. Have a seat, if you
don't mind. Thank you, Voloshin, close the door,
"if you could." "Of course, my dear." He closes the
door, leaves you in there. "I wasn't expecting
"such a rapid response, but I appreciate your
expediency."
LAURA: Well, we were right here.
MATT: "That's fantastic. Please, have a seat. I'd
like to discuss a few things with you if you don't
"mind. First off, congratulations yesterday. That
was quite a display and a fantastic victory. Well--"
LAURA: Are we going to war?
MATT: "I see you are aware of the shifts in our
current imperial state of affairs. We haven't had
"war in generations. I'm hopeful that the conflict
is swift, but I'll leave that concern to those
"with the right expertise. I'm tasked with keeping
my people safe here, not on the front. Here. Now,
"wartime puts us in an unfortunate scenario. Zadash
effectively governs the southern half of the
"empire and most of military might is now leaving
us. Our Crownsguard will be stretched thin across
"keeping the peace and dealing with unrest and
worry and protecting these walls from whatever
"pushes through the lines of battle and the general
things that wander from beyond our boundaries.
"Money isn't an issue, but personnel is. There are
outlying threats and criminals we no longer have
"the manpower for and as such, the Crown has
approved an expanded mercenary budget. Now you've
"already proven your ability to me twice. Most
recent, your skills in the Victory Pit showing you
"capable and loyal to the king. I know not your
interest, but if you would come under contact,
"under my office as legionnaires of the empire, you
would be responsible for protecting the lives of
"many innocent people. Now, under contract you
would receive 15 gold a week per person as
"a stipend whether or not you were on contract or
not. It could be at your leisure, months at a time
"with no work and you still get paid no matter what
you do. Each assignment rewards its own bounty of
"course, case by case. The work I'll be presenting
would largely involve the hunting of outstanding
"criminals, the acquisition of resources that may
benefit the Empire in this time of war, and
"sometimes the extermination of dangerous creatures
that threaten life away from the front lines. Now
"you'd all have credentials within the Empire and
that will grant you access to supplies, pro bono.
"Access to empirical halls, and individuals
otherwise restricted to the general populace."
LAURA: Would we get healing potions?
MATT: "When they're available, those supplies are
a bit stretched thin and put toward the front
"lines. We could probably muster what we can. Could
I hope for your help on this?"
TRAVIS: That's quite the offer. Seem to be opening
up the whole kit and caboodle for us here.
MATT: "Dire times make for dire circumstances. We
don't take lightly the ask that we're giving here--"
TRAVIS: We understand your position, unfortunately
you find us in a precarious time. As you can see,
we don't have all of our fellows here with us and
this morning's news caught us unawares. We'd need
a fair bit of time to consider your offer, I'm
afraid. We can't give you a yes or no right now.
MATT: "I understand, that's fine." She smiles
lightly, the crow's nests in her eyes folding in a
bit. "I hold no grudge against you should you
decline. That's all."
LAURA: We do appreciate the offer and we can't
wait to talk to our friends about it, though.
MATT: "Okay."
SAM: Insight check.
MATT: "Well, should you be interested, the first
contract I can discuss, if you choose to sign with
"us. It does offer a 10,000 gold bounty."
SAM: (choking)
LAURA: What is it?
MATT: "I can't tell you until you sign the
contract."
LAURA: Why not? It sounds like a lot of money for
something, though!
TRAVIS: We have sympathy for your situation. Will
you be here in a few hours if we need to return?
MATT: "Oh I have no choice, I'm in the process--"
and she gestures to the papers below her and
there's a stack of approval letters and reports
that have to be put out there. She's dividing what
forces that she can allow to go the eastern front
and sticking her feet in the sand on what things
she needs to maintain order in the city.
TALIESIN: You have our deepest sympathies at your
position. This is obviously going to be a very
difficult time.
MATT: "Well, the issue here is that many of our
finest investigators and hunters will be sent to
"the east and as such many of the criminals and
individuals that we were in the process of finding
"and bringing to justice will now go free or return
and run rampant."
LAURA: If only my friend were here. Me and my
friend Nott are really good at solving crimes,
we're the best investigators.
MATT: "Well, consider what I'm saying. At the very
least, come back and notify me."
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: "No harm no foul otherwise." She leans
forward and goes, "Look, I understand. People are
"as varied as they are selfish. I believe in the
Empire, but I definitely don't believe with all
"the people that run it. I do what I do because I
feel if I don't a lot of good people will be
"crushed under the boot of those that misuse their
power. But there are good people here, and we do
"what we can. I've seen the good that we can do.
That's why I'm here. I wish to fight for this land
"that I call home, to protect those who cannot
protect themselves, and combat the destructiveness
"and selfishness of anarchy. Utopia's impossible, I
know that, but I do what I can to make life as
"livable as possible. Anyway, go speak with your
friends, and I'll be here if you need me."
LAURA: Do you think the war will make it all the
way here?
MATT: "If the war makes it here, then we're in far
more trouble than I anticipated."
TRAVIS: Fair enough, your asks are fair. We'll
return, quickly.
MATT: "Thank you. I should get back to work." She
rubs her hands and gets back down to the paper.
The door opens behind and Voloshin leads you back
out of the King's Hall.
LAURA: If you ever need anyone to talk to because
you feel really stressed out, I'm here. I'm a good
healer, mentally.
MATT: She gives a nod and a wave.
TRAVIS: We turn and leave.
MATT: You guys are escorted out of the King's Hall
and left back out to the streets.
LAURA: Whoa, that was crazy!
ASHLEY: That was crazy.
TALIESIN: That's a lot.
LAURA: 10,000 gold! What do you think it is? Do
you think it's a dragon or something crazy like that?
TALIESIN: I think it's The Gentleman.
TRAVIS: I do too, or something just as sinister.
ASHLEY: I wonder if there's any way to find out
somehow what it is before accepting.
LAURA: I feel like The Gentleman probably works
with the city, you guys.
TALIESIN: I feel like 10,000 gold is buying an
awful lot of cooperation. More cooperation than I
think I'm capable of.
TRAVIS: Let's find the others and get our story
straight.
LAURA: Back to The Leaky Tap, then? Get our stuff
together?
TRAVIS and ASHLEY: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Then we'll meet them at the shop.
MATT: As you guys get to The Leaky Tap, you see
near the front door a young page wearing similar,
though simpler, robes as Voloshin and members of
the King's Hall, who approaches and goes, "Oh, hi!
"I'm sorry, I was sent to give you this summons
from the Lawmaster."
TRAVIS: We've already been, it's all right.
MATT: "Very well," and then runs off. You guys
gather your supplies and start making your way
back towards the Pentamarket. The three of you,
where are you going?
SAM and LIAM: The library.
MATT: You make your way towards the Archive of the
Cobalt Soul here in Zadash. The same beautiful
building with the large, steepled tower top.
MARISHA: Button up. I turn to Nott. How do I look?
Do I have any makeup running?
SAM: Do you wear makeup?
MARISHA: Like once a week.
SAM: I think it's worn off.
MARISHA: All right, good. Let's go.
SAM: Should I be--
LIAM: That would be helpful.
SAM: Do you think I should be more of a normie for
this?
LIAM: I'm going to do the same thing that I did
the other day. I am going to cast Disguise Self
and make the gigantic glasses and change my cloak
to a similar shade of blue.
MARISHA: What's that thing you guys do, Mother's
Love? What's that situation?
SAM: That's for when we steal things, and I
pretend to be his baby and he pretends to be my
mama. Then when they're looking at the cute baby,
he steals something.
MARISHA: Right. You could go with the first half
of that plan, but without the second half that
involves the stealing?
LIAM: They would let you bring a mother and her
baby into the library?
SAM: I'll be a dwarf.
MARISHA: I'm more concerned about bringing in a
man and a goblin.
SAM: I can disguise myself as well.
LIAM: Normally when we do Mother's Love, Nott
stabs people.
MARISHA: Sure. You do know how to adjust in
certain circumstances, though, right? You do know
how to improv based on the current surroundings,
though, right?
LIAM: Hey, this city's under lockdown, can we go
into the library?
MARISHA: Yeah, let's go.
SAM: I'll cast Disguise Self and be a little
halfling girl.
MATT: As you guys make your way to the front
archway of the entrance of the archive, there is
the main sign-in bench, which has the large tome
that's on a small pedestal, where you sign in to
enter the facility, and then you're greeted by one
of the archivists who approaches. You recognize
this individual as Madeer. Has olive-colored
skin, short, dark hair, approaches with a smile.
"Beauregard, you come with companions."
MARISHA: I do. Spreading that Cobalt love.
MATT: "Fantastic. What is it you seek this day?"
LIAM: Me? I am interested in the history of the
greatest arcanists of all time.
MATT: "History can be done. Arcanists can be done.
Please, do sign in here."
LIAM: Ja. Caleb Widogast.
MARISHA: That's your name.
MATT: "And your friend?"
SAM: Veth.
TRAVIS: Ham and Beth.
MATT: "No surname, very well. I will be escorting
you as well. Come." Madeer leads you into the
library. For the first time you guys seeing it, it
is overwhelming. It's strange. For as much as
there's a very calm, almost cathedral-like
structure on the exterior, the interior of the
chambers have a curved, organic feel to the way
it's situated and organized. The bookshelves wrap
around these walls, these separate antechambers
that are broken up like ventricles of a heart. In
each one, it is floor to 15-foot ceiling filled
books with large shifting ladders that glide
across poles and wheels. There are a number of
tables and small nooks where individuals are in
the process of taking notes or reading through.
It's not super crowded. There's maybe eight other
people in the facility at this time. Obviously the
city is very occupied with other things at the
moment. It's not like there's a huge, constant
need for this, and the people in here are usually
regulars. A lot of older folks, people who tend to
spend their later life wanting to read and learn.
MARISHA: Memberships.
MATT: You are led to a section. Madeer reads
through. "Arcanists, you say? Historically? Are we
"talking Age of Arcanum?"
LIAM: I am looking for histories, accounts of
people who pushed the boundaries of what can be
done over the ages. The firsts. I am interested in
more than what is typical, at least as much as can
be known. Do you follow me?
MATT: "I believe so."
MARISHA: He's a magic fan.
LIAM: Ja, that is true, I am a magic fan.
MARISHA: Little heavy-handed, man. Like, really
heavy-handed.
MATT: A few tomes are retrieved. "This here is a
recollection of what elements of historical
"significance could be pulled from the remnants of
the Age of Arcanum, pre-Calamity. There are a
"great number of mages out there, though many of
them befell darker interests. But here are those
"books. If you're looking for more modern mages, we
have historical information on the past 200 years
"of empirical magecraft and powerful wizards in
that realm."
LIAM: What about the unexplained?
MATT: "Explain what you mean by 'unexplained,'
please."
MARISHA: I said you were already being too
heavy-handed!
LIAM: Questions. There is a certain amount of
knowledge in the schools of this empire, and then
there are questions. Theorizing, philosophy of the
arcane.
MATT: "That would be more Soltryce Academy
material. They do lay claim to most of those
"theoretical discussions and research. The Cerberus
Assembly would be the keepers of those research
"endeavors."
LIAM: Excellent, I shall go there next.
MATT: "I have a book here on the Cerberus
Assembly, if that would be of interest to you."
LIAM: Yes.
MATT: These tomes are presented to you. You can
spend time to read if you'd like. Madeer watches
the entire time, like a hawk.
LIAM: I start reading.
MATT: Which book do you go through first?
LIAM: I will start with the first, the oldest.
MATT: Okay. Are you absorbing it, or are you
skimming through?
LIAM: This one, I am absorbing it. I will read it
cover to cover.
MATT: Cover to cover will take you the better part
of the day.
LIAM: I'm a speed reader, and an average novel
takes an hour to an hour and a half for a speed
reader to read.
MATT: You're a speed reader, but this is also very
dense material, and it is essentially a historical
theorizing on historical elements they've been
able to piece together. I'd say by the time you've
gotten here, it'd be about noon in the day.
LIAM: I'm holding three tomes, correct?
MATT: Yes, and I'd say you'd finish this book by
about 3:00.
LIAM: If I take a moment to skim, ten minutes
through each one, and get the barest idea of what
I would find inside each.
MATT: You want me to just tell you all the
history?
LIAM: No, I'm trying to figure out if I were to
look at a couple of pages at once from three
different books--
MATT: What are you looking for? You have to give
me something to go on here, otherwise this is
going to turn into an hour and a half of me
telling you about the history of the Age of
Arcanum.
LIAM: I want the furthest extent of transmutation
and changing reality.
MATT: Okay. There are discussions about
transmutation on a powerful level. It involves the
creation of turning mountains into mobile clouds.
It speaks of, in the Age of Arcanum, there were
floating cities. There was arcane technology
utilized in that period, which was this magical
utopia, but a lot of that was lost in the war,
partially because a lot of these mages, when they
had developed magic to this point, weren't
satiated with their mortal capabilities, and that
was when they were easily corruptible by the
betrayer gods. Then it goes into discussion of the
Calamity. Magics that can alter the fabric of
reality exist out there. Some of them appear to be
myth, some have been wiped from time and history
because they've been voted too dangerous and
they're supposedly under lock and key in other
places of the world, if not completely eradicated
because it was not fit to leave them in the hands
of mortals.
LIAM: This was in one of these tomes?
MATT: Yes.
LIAM: Then I will focus on that, because I'm
interested in that.
MATT: It speaks on theories and manipulations of--
if you're looking for things reality-based,
reality's a big scope. Transmutation specifically,
most of what you can glean from this discusses the
idea of turning from one creature to another,
turning from one substance to another, how they
would be able to build fortresses out of stone and
then turn it to diamond for extra protective
elements, and those were the great palaces of that
age.
LIAM: You know my main interests. Do I find
anything of that in here?
MATT: You find some discussion of it. You find
some discussion of the manipulation of time, but
what minor manipulation is capable through magic
is merely to slow or expedite what happens.
Accelerating time to a certain degree becomes very
dangerous, and there is talk of some mages that
have attempted to reverse time in short stints,
and that process is both very taxing and in the
past has completely annihilated those who toyed
with that power. It speaks specifically of two
different mages who believed that they could
possibly alter choices, alter elements of their
past to benefit their future, their gaining of
power and influence. One was turned to dust, the
other was never seen again.
LIAM: I spend all my time with that book.
MARISHA: Hey, Madeer. How's it been? How's it
going?
MATT: It has been frustrating, but fine.
MARISHA: Fucking Zeenoth, am I right?
MATT: Zeenoth is a great friend.
MARISHA: No, he's a great friend! Great guy. Great
guy, that Zeenoth. Has Dairon left?
MATT: I have not seen her this morning, but I
don't know if she's left or not.
MARISHA: Cool, cool.
MATT: You read through that tome. It's about three
in the afternoon now.
MARISHA: Hey, Caleb, not going to conquer the
world in a library visit.
LIAM: Can you give me two more hours?
MARISHA: No, I cannot give you two more hours. I
can't. I will gouge my eyes out with a fucking
pencil if I give you two more hours.
SAM: How about one more hour? We'll all
compromise.
LIAM: What about 30 more minutes?
MARISHA: Do you have something in your neverending
flask?
SAM: Of course, would you like a drink? Are we
allowed to drink in here? Why are you carrying
around a cup?
LIAM: I skim the book on the Cerberus Assembly.
MATT: It has a breakdown of previous members who
passed away. It's basically a historical dialogue
of how it was established. The name was actually a
reference to a group that existed in the Age of
Arcanum. It talks about how there was a war of
mage houses 150 years ago within the empire that
nearly destroyed part of the capital, Rexxentrum,
and as part of the ceasefire and the arrest of
these mage houses that were at war, as opposed to
imprisoning them, they agreed to bind themselves
to the empire and work for them. That's what the
Cerberus Assembly was established as: a power
under rule of the king. Since then has flourished.
It's helped the kingdom rise to power, it helped
them conquer the Julous Dominion. They work with
and under the king. It talks of all the members
and it talks about what they do. Trent is in
there. There is Master Trent Ikithon, who is the
Archmage of Civil Influence. Civil Influence is
the title and it talks about how he is the
propagandist and the constructor of the face of
the Empire in upper-echelon circles. It speaks of
Martinet Lunidus Da'leth who is the Archmage of
Domestic Protections, who is the oldest in the
original member of the Assembly who still lives.
Was there when it was built and is currently
considered the leader of the Assembly. It speaks
of Marquis Jenna Iresor who is the Archmage of
Industry. One of the younger members of the
Assembly. There is Master Doolan Tversky who is
the Archmage of Dysology.
LIAM and MARISHA: Dysology?
MATT: D-Y-S-O-L-O-G-Y. There is--
SAM: Are you reading these things out loud?
LAURA: Yes, he is.
LIAM: I could say I'm muttering it under my
breath.
MATT: There is Lord Athesias Uludan who is the
Archmage of Diplomatic Union. There is Lady Vess
DeRogna who is the Archmage of Antiquity. I'll
send you these later. It's fine. I'll send you an email.
TRAVIS: We now have something that rivals a
shopping episode. It's called the library.
MATT: There is Headmaster Zivan Margolin who is
the Archmage of Conscription. Then there is
Headmaster Oremid Hass who is the Archmage of
Cultivation. Those are the eight members
currently.
TRAVIS: I mean, I have to give a small golf clap
for--
TALIESIN: You wrote all this?
MARISHA: It's The Silmarillion.
MATT: Oh, there is a lot more information!
SAM: Caleb, when you were muttering there, did you
say Dolan Tversky?
MATT: Doolan.
TRAVIS: Not Dolan.
LIAM: Similar name.
MARISHA: There's nothing in this. You handed it
back, I thought there was going to be something in it.
LIAM: Okay, I will say that I got my fill. I can
feel this one's radiating--
MATT: Yeah, burrowing vision into your neck.
LIAM: I want to stay for 17 more hours, but I'm
ready to go. I am good. I am done. Thank you.
MARISHA: All right, thank you.
LIAM: Thank you.
MATT: "Of course! Good day."
MARISHA: Thanks, Madeer.
MATT: "Good to see you, Beauregard." He escorts
you out of the Archive.
LIAM: Caleb looks at the thousands of books that
he did not read and leaves.
MATT: Yeah, and there's a whole second level above
the spiral staircase.
LAURA: And we count our fucking blessings.
MARISHA: You know, you're not going to find any
answers in any of those books.
LIAM: Let's go find the others.
LAURA: We've already left the city.
TRAVIS: We are in Rexxentrum.
SAM: They're in a different campaign.
MARISHA: What do you mean it's been 17 years,
Pumat? What do you mean?
MATT: You guys, what have you been up to during
this time? Because it's been a number of hours.
LAURA: Anything.
TRAVIS: We ate like three shepherd's pies. We
fucking killed a guy and hid him in the room. We
stuck him next to the skellington.
LAURA: It was great.
TALIESIN: We did our taxes.
LAURA: Molly told all of our fortunes.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: You've gathered all your materials. You went
and checked on your cart, which is now
currently--
LAURA: We just pushed the giant rotting head out
of it and left it on the street.
MATT: Okay, that is a nasty fucking manticore
head. The flesh has sloughed off of it at this
point. Yeah, it's pretty rough. You have your
cart, the horses are still there. The horses you
had, at least.
LAURA: Hey, you guys. I never used my fate thingy
yesterday because I'm stupid. Did you guys want to
use it today?
TRAVIS: For what?
LAURA: Oh, did I not tell you about this thing? Oh
my gosh, you guys, you know the weird little thing
that we stole?
TRAVIS: Uh-huh.
LAURA: Well, it gives you this-- okay, so you
focus on it and you go to this place and you can
see it and there's this little gray ball and it
goes "Touch me!" and then you go "Okay!" Then it
comes out, and it goes in your chest, and you get
control of your fate for one time in a day.
TRAVIS: Wow.
ASHLEY: What? What do you mean you get control of
your fate?
LAURA: Well, like basically like if you fuck up or
something like that then you get to fix it, maybe.
ASHLEY: Can you go back and--?
LAURA: No, it's like all of a sudden you feel a
little lucky, maybe.
ASHLEY: Do you want to try it?
TRAVIS: Yeah, sure. Why not?
LAURA: Let's hide next to the body that we just
killed so that you can try it in the cellar so
that nobody sees, because we should probably be
careful pulling this thing out.
TALIESIN: I would imagine right now especially.
LAURA: Yeah. I pull out the box. Just focus on it,
Fjord! I'll protect you!
TRAVIS: Do I have to touch it or just look at it?
LAURA: I can't remember. I think you just--
TRAVIS: I'll do both. Are you doing it, too?
ASHLEY: I'm going in?
LAURA: It can only do one person in a day, but
we'll pass it around the group, so if you want
it today, Fjord, then Yasha, you can do it
tomorrow.
ASHLEY: Okay.
TRAVIS: Sure.
MATT: As you focus on it, there's nothing really
there until your hand touches it and then there's
a momentary connection. You feel the thrumming of
the object, this dull heartbeat. Your vision goes
tunneled until you're pulled into this space of
light and stars, distant gases and colors. There
you see, beyond this brief journey, this sense of
self dissipating. At the moment where it gets a
little scary and you being to lose a sense of
personal identity, you see this tiny gray mote of
energy before you that's also pulsing with that
same pattern. You instinctively reach out and feel
as you absorb it into yourself, and there, the
fragment of--
LAURA: Did he say anything when he touched it?
Like Caleb did?
MATT: Did you say anything?
LAURA: Did you say anything? No, you were silent
the whole time?
MATT: Your vision has come back to you and you
feel this--
SAM: I'm half sea monster!
TRAVIS: Was I supposed to say something?
LAURA: No, it's just when Caleb did it, he was
like, "I love you, Mom and Dad!" Then he started
crying.
TRAVIS: Oh, no. It was a crazy trip though.
LAURA: Yeah?
TRAVIS: Yep.
ASHLEY: Do you feel like you have control over
your fate?
TRAVIS: No?
TALIESIN: Do you feel...lucky?
TRAVIS and TALIESIN: Do you?
TRAVIS: Well, I don't know.
LAURA: I close up the box. I put it back in the
bag.
TALIESIN: Let's go to Pumat's and let's get the
rest of them together, I'm sure by now--
LAURA: We will ride the cart. Do you guys really
think we probably shouldn't become legionnaires, then?
TALIESIN: No.
LAURA: No? We should leave town?
TALIESIN: I think we should get out of town while
the getting's good.
LAURA: That lady's really nice, though. She's like
a grandma.
TRAVIS: 10,000 gold, I mean, shit. Wouldn't mind
earning 10,000 and then bouncing.
SAM: We're going to go to Pumat's as well.
TALIESIN: You're conscripted once you start
earning that 10,000.
TRAVIS: Yeah, you're conscripted as long as you
stay in town.
LAURA: I wonder how the contract works? I bet it's
like a magical contract or something like that
where you sign it and then they have like your
soul!
TALIESIN: Or you sign it and then the next time
you come across some soldiers of the Empire, they
have you executed for treason for running off on
it.
LAURA: Oh, that would be bad.
ASHLEY: Yeah, we should explore this idea, but
maybe.
TRAVIS: Right, let's go to Pumat's.
MATT: We'll say for the purposes of expediency,
and you guys lolling around a little bit to try
and catch up, you all arrive at Pumat Sol's in
roughly the same time in the Pentamarket. As you
enter the interior of the chamber, you can see the
three Pumats are dusting and staring off because
there are currently no other people making
purchases inside. Most of the business and chaos--
people dealing with the initial shock and
preparation stage of this coming scuffle with the
East. As you enter, the first Pumat glances over
in your direction. "Oh, hello there! It's real
"interesting morning times. What can I do for
you?"
TRAVIS: Had a bit of a tussle. Guess what we're
back for?
LAURA: I bet he doesn't have any more yet.
SAM: Healing potions, do you have any?
MATT: "Unfortunately, you guys have pretty much
cleaned me out, and what little bits I had were
"snatched up bright and early this morning by the
Righteous Brand."
LAURA: We should have bought some earlier! Do you
know of anyone else that would have some?
MATT: "Generally, I don't like to plug rival
purveyors here in the city."
LAURA: Right, but seeing as how you don't have any
inventory.
MATT "There is Grace of the Wilds, which is on the
southern side of the Pentamarket. You can go ahead
"and have Jasna Bree maybe help you there if the
army hasn't gotten to her first. But I digress.
"Respectfully, it's going to be real difficult this
time of year."
LAURA: To get healing potions?
MATT: "Because we're at war."
LAURA: "This time of year," like it happens every
year?
MATT: "No, but I mean it's that time of year right
now apparently where war happens. That's a
"problem."
LAURA: Are you going to go to war, Pumat?
MATT: (laughs) "No!"
LAURA: But you're such a powerful person, don't
you think you would be helpful?
MATT: "I don't think that's any of our fates right
now, isn't that right, boys?" They're all like,
"Yeah, no that's--" "No, warfare's not my thing."
TRAVIS: I know we were in here very recently. You
haven't got any overnight special deliveries of
anything interesting, have you?
MATT: "Unfortunately, you've taken the bulk of
what was there, other than a few odds
"and ends that you couldn't afford previously."
LIAM: Do you have any of that paper that I have
been purchasing so much of?
MATT: "We got a little more paper, yeah."
LIAM: Could I purchase, say, 200 gold worth of it?
MATT: "Certainly. That can be provided. We still
have that little pearl thing, we got the
"bracelets, but that's all we got at the moment.
Mister Prime back there is hard at work." He turns
back and you hear this voice like, "Yeah! Got a lot
of stock to kick up now! You cleared me out for a
"while, which thanks for that!"
TRAVIS: You're welcome.
LAURA: What was the pearl again?
MATT: "Oh this here's a pearl that allows you to
go ahead and utilize your magical capabilities.
"Let's see here. Yeah, you use a command word and
it allows you to regain one of your spells."
SAM: How much was it?
MATT: "This one runs you roughly about 350 gold
pieces."
LAURA: I would like to buy that please, thank
you!
MATT: "All righty, by all means."
SAM: Is it one use only, and then it's gone
forever?
MATT: "Once per day."
TRAVIS: What was that other item you had?
MATT: "Well, here you are, if you would like
to--"
LAURA: Is it the Pearl of Power?
MATT: It is.
LAURA: I had that as Vex!
MATT: "There's this enchanted shield here, which
we discussed previously. That has an enchantment
"to its deflection capabilities so it will help
improve your chances of avoiding dangerous
"physical contact via weaponry and other sources.
Then these here are this pair of bracers are able
"to do a similar scenario given you don't have too
many types of hide or metal in the way to prevent
"the enchantment from protecting you, but--"
TRAVIS: Does it work with medium armor?
MATT: "Well, nah, it only works if you don't have
any armor or shield."
ASHLEY: Oh, what does it do?
SAM: No armor, not even light armor?
MATT: "Yeah, sorry."
LAURA: Do you wear armor, Yasha?
ASHLEY: No.
TALIESIN: Oh?
LIAM: Beauregard does not either.
SAM: How much are those?
MATT: "That one will run you back about 1,200
gold."
SAM: Maybe not, forget that.
TALIESIN: I don't know.
ASHLEY: We'll come back for another day.
SAM: Do you have any enchanted crossbow bolts?
MATT: "Let me go ahead and check there for a
second, those are generally smaller-scale here.
"Pumat III, if you don't mind." "I got it, already
listening to you, don't worry." He goes up a small
ladder in the far corner into an attic place and
you hear some rustling around as the other Pumats
are there patiently watching. "So yeah, crazy war
times, huh?"
TRAVIS: How much for that shield?
MATT: "Oh, this here enchanted shield will run you
about 550 gold pieces."
TRAVIS: I think I'm all right.
MATT: "Fair enough." About five minutes pass and
then the Pumat comes down, he's got a small, bound
cluster of bolts and he goes, "Hey, so it's all we
got, but we've got a batch here of ten enchanted
"crossbow bolts. These upon firing should offer a
small batch of fiery impact on whatever you strike
"with them."
SAM: How much are they?
MATT: "For each of these, it's 50 gold per bolt."
SAM: I'll take two bolts please.
MATT: "Two bolts, here you go."
SAM: Thank you.
MATT: He passes them over to you. These bolts,
upon impact, do an additional 1d8 fire damage.
SAM: Nice.
MATT: You have two of them, and it's one use
only.
SAM: Okay. 1d8 fire damage. Great.
MATT: You may have a chance of recovering them,
depending.
SAM: Okay, cool. What did we decide? Are we
leaving town or are we doing something else?
TRAVIS: We got an offer to work for the city, to
be legionnaires. To protect it while its troops,
hunters, and mercenaries are going to the front
lines. There are bounties of up to 10,000 gold in
reward if we stay.
SAM: Caleb, do we want to stay? Are there things
here that you need?
LIAM: I defer to the group. I think we work well
together and whatever you think's best.
MARISHA: 10,000 gold.
ASHLEY: 10,000 gold is a lot of money.
MARISHA: They want someone really important dead
is what it sounds like to me.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Sounds like an expensive enemy to make.
TRAVIS: Our other option being fleeing the city?
There were no postings for--
LAURA: We already pushed the nasty head out of our
wagon.
MARISHA: Oh. Should have done that like a week
ago. Good call. Yeah.
TALIESIN: I'm legitimately happy to go in any
direction far away from the front line,
personally.
MARISHA: Is joining the city joining the war? Is
that what they made it sound like?
TRAVIS: Believe so.
TALIESIN: I think it's a slippery slope.
LAURA: Joining the city is protecting the city,
more than it is joining the war.
TALIESIN: It's conscription.
MARISHA: The city's a part of the empire.
LAURA: But you're under contract, for 15 gold a
week.
LIAM: What about your interests in the Hall of
Erudition here and the Academy?
TRAVIS: Oh the Soltryce?
LIAM: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I'd like to see it, but I guess I'm
not in a terrible rush.
LAURA: The big one's in Rexxentrum, anyway.
MARISHA: I think we'll make gold wherever we go.
TALIESIN: I agree. They say there's kids
disappearing up north?
LAURA: If we stop by the merchants' guild we may
still be able to be armored escorts for people.
SAM: Or we could just leave.
LAURA: Or we could just go.
MARISHA: Check by the merchants' guild, see our
options, and then make the decision from there.
TRAVIS: Sure.
MARISHA: All right.
LIAM: You know coasting is not a bad idea either.
There is not as massive a gain, but there is not
as high a risk for whatever this 10,000 gold
target is.
LAURA: Yeah, let's not do that one.
LIAM: Play it safe.
LAURA: Just be armored guards.
MARISHA: This means we're staying together,
though?
LAURA: Oh, I thought yes, that was a given right?
I mean, we all work so well together.
TALIESIN: I like it.
LAURA: We make really good roommates!
MARISHA: We do make such good roommates.
SAM: Well, Beau, do you want us to stay together?
MARISHA: I think we make a good team. I think
there's more to be had here.
SAM: All right.
MARISHA: It might run out, who knows. I'm not an
optimist, but think there's still more to be had.
TALIESIN: Do we make a polite exit at the least or
do we just bugger out?
TRAVIS: She seemed pretty heartfelt, I think a
polite exit would be thoughtful.
TALIESIN: I'm fair for that.
MARISHA: Merchants' guild then polite exit?
SAM: Yeah, maybe we'll rustle up W.C., Loo, John,
Crapper, Shitter, and Toilet.
MARISHA: Oh that's right, our horsies!
LAURA and MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Any other business you want to do before you
decide to leave the city?
LAURA: Did you want to swing by and see if-- Yeah,
can we pop into the other shop? The old Grace of
the Wild and see if they have any healing potions,
just to check out.
MATT: Okay. Yeah.
TALIESIN: Just in case.
SAM: In the interest of time...
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: Do they have any?
MATT: In the interest of time, Jasna Bree, who is
a rather eccentric woman with wild black hair, a
slightly hard to follow disposition, greets you
and is like, "Hi! Welcome! Glad you could make it!
"Healing potions, yes. Unfortunately kind of
already cleared out. I'm so sorry. Give me a week,
"I will have a fresh batch of healing potions, and
I'd be happy to help."
LAURA: Definitely be back in a week. Wait, do you
have any herbalism kits?
MATT: "I do! I do!"
LAURA: Oh great! Could I buy some--
MATT: "I have four!"
SAM: How much?
MATT: "For each it's-- let me check." She goes
into her ledger.
TALIESIN: The DM's Guide.
MATT: Yeah, it works out well.
LAURA: Would I be able to make potions of healing
with this?
MATT: With herbalism kits?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: I believe you would, yes.
LAURA: Okay.
SAM: You can make potions of healing?
MATT: Correct, it is five gold per.
LAURA: Oh great. How many do you have?
MATT: You have to have proficiency with it to make
a potion of healing. Are you proficient with
herbalism kit?
LAURA: I don't know how I would tell.
MATT: It would be under your proficiencies.
LAURA: Oh, then no. Oh no, I only have proficiency
with a forgery kit and a disguise kit.
MATT: Sorry.
LAURA: No, then fuck it! I don't want that shit!
TRAVIS: I'm going to go back to Pumat's. I'm going
to buy that damn shield.
MATT: Okay! There you go.
TRAVIS: Thank you.
SAM: If she has the materials to make acid, I'll
buy it from her.
MATT: Yeah, she easily has materials and sells
them to you.
TALIESIN: I couldn't make potions with alchemist
supplies, could I?
MATT: Not potions. You can make poisons, acid,
various alchemical concepts, but that's the gist of it.
TALIESIN: All right.
MARISHA: Does she have any badass weapons? Any
badass sticks?
MATT: No. She is purely a purveyor of salves and
natural remedies and--
LIAM: Ointments.
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: Can I ask a question?
MATT: Yes.
LAURA: With a healer's kit, can you heal people
when you're not in combat? Or is it just for
stabilizing?
MATT: The healer's kit usually can be used to
stabilize somebody. There's a feat you can take
that allows you to spend an action to heal someone
with it in combat. It's called the Healer feat.
Which is actually pretty cool.
LAURA: Oh, okay. I'll look at that.
MATT: It turns anybody into a combat healer.
LAURA: Okay.
SAM: Should we go say goodbye to somebody and
leave?
MARISHA: Are we checking the merchants' to see if
there's any armed escort requests out of the
merchants' guild?
MATT: Who's helming that?
SAM: Fjord!
TRAVIS: Not me.
LAURA: I'll do it.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
SAM: I'm coming with her.
ASHLEY: I'll help you.
LAURA: Us three. Oh. That was bad.
MATT: She's helping you with it. It's advantage on
you.
LAURA: Yes! (laughs) Oh no! Slightly better.
Five.
MATT: You gather the knowledge of this war has
blindsided most of the merchant guilds in Zadash.
Best you can tell, most of them are in the process
of getting ready to figure out what their next
endeavor is. Those that would be leaving won't be
leaving for a few days. If you hang around, you
may be able to pick up that kind of work.
ASHLEY: Okay. That's something.
LAURA: Well. I think we'd have to wait. Maybe we
should just go?
ASHLEY: Should we say our goodbyes to Orentha?
LAURA: We'll swing by and say, sorry we are
declining.
MATT: As you guys make your way back to the King's
Hall, you are escorted back into Orentha
Stonegrasp's office. "I see you've returned. I
appreciate your expediency in getting back to me."
Her crackling Southern drawl breaking through with
her bright dwarven smile. "Considering what we've
"discussed, what have you come to a conclusion
on?"
LAURA: I think we are probably not going to be
able to help out right now.
MATT: "I understand."
SAM: It's not you. It's us. We're not ready for
that kind of commitment.
MATT: "I understand, that's all right."
SAM: You're going to make an adventuring party
very happy some day.
LAURA: You really will.
MATT: "I hope so. We'll send someone else after
the Hawker."
LAURA: After the what?
MATT: "The Hawker."
LAURA: What's a Hawker?
MATT: "Don't worry about it."
SAM: Does anyone know what a Hawker is?
LIAM: Which spelling are you using for that word?
A-W-K? O-C-K?
MATT: H-A-W-K.
LAURA: Like a monster or something?
MATT: "No. He actually was a legionnaire for us
about five years back, but then went rogue, and we
"believe had ties with the Myriad and became a
powerful tent-pole here in the Marrow Valley. We
"had him cornered in Deastok about three months ago
by a team of crownsguard under the leadership of
"Carlos Ventuga. But this Hawker slew Carlos and
fled south into the Wuyun Gorge and disappeared
"into the Menagerie Coast. We're having to send
whoever we can to try and retrieve him and bring him
"back alive."
LAURA: From the Menagerie Coast?
MATT: "Yes."
TRAVIS: The opposite direction.
LAURA: The Menagerie Coast is really freaking
cool, you guys.
SAM: So many choices!
LAURA: Oh shit, that sounds really cool!
MATT: "If you need more time, that's fine."
LAURA: What do you guys think? Hold on, can we
talk about this?
TALIESIN: Quick huddle.
SAM: Pros and cons.
TALIESIN: I'm happy just to leave the city.
LAURA: Pros, we get to visit the Menagerie Coast,
which is always really cool.
TRAVIS: Pro, 10,000 gold.
LAURA: Do we have a time limit on when we'd be
able to get him?
MATT: "No, but the longer it takes, the easier he
probably has vanishing into the south."
LAURA: Makes sense.
MATT: "We sent a troupe after him about eight
weeks ago, and I fear they may not be coming back
"at this point. We intended to send some of our top
investigators from the capital after this
"bounty--"
SAM: Investigators!
LAURA: That's what they said!
SAM: That's our job!
LAURA: We're really good at it!
MATT: "It's 10,000 gold alive, 5,000 dead."
LAURA: What if we were like, let's go after this
guy, and then after that, we'll talk about being
under contract? Like this can be a test
situation.
MATT: "Unfortunately, if this is to happen, I need
you under contract."
SAM: Do you need some tea or something?
MATT: "I'm good, I appreciate your
conscientiousness."
SAM: A lozenge?
MATT: "I'm all right, but thank you."
TALIESIN: Do you have a lozenge?
SAM: I don't, I just feel bad for her.
TALIESIN: Shouldn't be offering things that you
don't have.
MATT: "It's fine."
ASHLEY: What does the contract entail?
MATT: "Retrieving this man and bringing him back
here for justice."
ASHLEY: How long are we in contract with you? Just
for this, or--?
MATT: "The contract has you as a legionnaire, and
as part of that you just--"
SAM: Forever.
MATT: "Well, until we decide to mutually end your
service."
MARISHA: Mutually.
MATT: "Well, if you wish out of it, we can discuss
it, it's fine. But I mean as opposed to deserting
"is the problem."
MARISHA: So you want to hire more legionnaires to
go kill an ex-legionnaire who wasn't legionnaire-y
enough for you.
LAURA: No, he ran away when he was a legionnaire.
MATT: "He ran away and then allied himself, we
believe, with the Myriad and then has since, upon
"attempting to bring him in, murdered some of our
finest men."
MARISHA: Right.
LAURA: The Myriad does some scary stuff, you
guys.
TALIESIN: If we happen to bring him in even if we
weren't under contract--
MATT: "Part of the bounty would still apply I'm
sure."
LAURA: How much of the bounty?
MATT: "Probably half."
ASHLEY: That's an option.
LAURA: But if we were part of the contract then we
would get access to a bunch of stuff.
ASHLEY: That's true.
MATT: "Think about it."
SAM: Think about it.
LAURA: Can we decide, can we talk about this?
SAM: Huddle up again.
MATT: You guys can discuss this over the next week
if you want. You don't need to decide this right now.
TALIESIN: I'm too tired to make proper decisions.
MATT: It's fine. "Return when you have an idea."
You're led outside and start making your way to
the Leaky Tap to discuss your plan of action.
There, waiting--
LAURA: This is where we hit the save point. I
don't know.
MATT: As you guys head back to The Leaky Tap, the
Righteous Brand are making their way through the
city. It's a weirdly solemn, unexpected military
parade essentially as they're just gathering
supplies and making their way through. It's a show
of strength to help rise the spirits of people
that seem confused and worried about this coming
conflict. So it does seem to calm nerves and a lot
of the children seem excited to see them. Coming
down the streets on their horses and their
armaments on display. While you're watching it go
by, a voice whispers up next to you and goes,
"Psst, hey." You turn and you see, hood up, Kara.
"Sorry, don't mean to bother you. If you have a
"moment, things are getting strange around here and
The Gentleman may have a bit of work for you."
(groaning)
MARISA: We're the prettiest girl in town.
TALIESIN: Should have left in the middle of the
goddamn night.
MATT: We'll pick up from there next week. You guys
made quite a display last night in the Victory Pit.
LIAM: You just made it three times as complicated
in seven seconds.
MATT: Yeah, I know.
TALIESIN: Knew it was coming.
MATT: Picking up on that. However, you guys do
level up. You hit level five.
SAM: What does that mean?
LAURA: Level five?!
MATT: That means let's all roll some hit points to
finish off the evening here.
MARISHA: Right now?
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: Oh gosh.
MATT: So we'll start over here, we'll go in order.
What'd you get, Beau?
MARISHA: I rolled a seven plus three.
MATT: There you go.
MARISHA: Wait, right?
MATT: Whatever your constitution modifier is.
MARISHA: Plus three, yeah.
MATT: Ten extra hit points to Beau. What'd you
get, Nott?
SAM: I roll a d8?
MATT: Roll a d8.
SAM: I got a seven.
MATT: Nice!
TRAVIS: Everybody rolls a d8?
MATT: I believe for a warlock it's also a d8.
Caleb is a d6, he's the only one. Warlock is a d8,
but it adds a plus.
LIAM: I rolled a four.
MATT: What'd you get?
LIAM: Four, plus I've a constitution modifier.
TRAVIS: It was a d8?
MATT: d8, yeah.
TRAVIS: Six plus four, ten.
MATT: Nice.
LAURA: Oh I'm rolling an eight as well?
MATT: You are as a cleric, yes.
LAURA: Five.
MATT: Five, okay. d10 for you.
TALIESIN: d10 for me. Six.
MATT: You guys are all rolling above average, nice.
ASHLEY: d12?
MATT: d12 for you.
ASHLEY: Nice. 11?
MATT: Shit, you guys rolled really good this time,
well done!
ASHLEY: Plus two?
MATT: It'll be your constitution modifier, so a
plus two to that for 13 hit points. So add 11 and
it should give you 13.
LAURA: Oh it'll go. Here, let me get-- Over on
this side, you can manage your levels.
ASHLEY: That's right.
MATT: For Molly, Beau, and Yasha, that means your
attack action now does two attacks. You get an
extra ki point. Casters all get level three
spells. That's pretty great. And your proficiency
bonus goes up by one. So all your proficient
skills, proficient attacks, spell DCs, and spell
attack modifiers all go up by one. I think it's
all going to be included in there already, in the
app. It's a good level.
TALIESIN: I add six to the rolled HP?
MATT: Correct.
TALIESIN: All right.
LIAM: What's everybody's hit points at, what are
the new totals?
MATT: Beau also gets Stunning Strike.
MARISHA: 44.
LAURA: My hit points are super low, you guys.
SAM: What's Uncanny Dodge?
LIAM: The best thing ever.
LAURA: He got Uncanny Dodge.
SAM: Sneak attack bonus 3d6! Oh shit. All the
dice.
MATT: This is my favorite part. Watching people
realize what they get when they level up.
TALIESIN: Oh wait, I get a bunch of weird shit,
we're going to have to have a talk.
SAM: You can use your reaction to halve the
attack's damage against you?!
MATT: Yep.
SAM: Holy shit. I'm unstoppable!
MATT: That's part of the reason that Vax survived
so much in the last campaign.
LAURA: I think I get Revivify now.
SAM: Can I use that once a day? Once a round?
MATT: No, it's just your reaction, once a round.
SAM: Once a round?!
MATT: Yeah.
SAM: Holy shit. I'm a golden god.
TALIESIN: I get a new blood curse. I want to have
a conversation about that before we go into that.
MATT: Yes, you do get another blood curse, you get
to choose.
LAURA: I have Dispel Magic you guys!
SAM: So does Yasha, no big deal.
ASHLEY: No, that's a big deal.
MATT: Then you get, of course, 3rd-level spells,
and you get another invocation. You can mess with
it later.
LIAM: Where we're leaving off, are we going to
come back? Because it's the end of the day, are we
going to come back at the end of the day or are we
going to come back next morning?
MATT: It's late afternoon at this point. You guys
are coming back right as you met with Kara there.
LAURA: Great, so you can go back to the library
next time.
MARISHA: (chanting) Level five, level five.
MATT: Yasha, your speed increases by ten, which is
nice. That's some fun stuff. We'll leave it there
and we'll pick up next week in this pre-war chaos.
Guys, thank you so much for hanging with us. I
hope you had a good time. We had a good time.
We'll be back next Thursday, see where this goes
as choices, paths, avenues, and possibilities all
begin to arise.
LAURA: (singing) Too many options.
LIAM: They're engrossed in leveling up. This is
the joy of Dungeons & Dragons.
TALIESIN: I'm excited to see what insane shit I can
do. My proficiency bonus, did it automatically go up?
MATT: Yeah, it automatically puts it up.
LAURA: Holy shit, you have so many hit points.
MARISHA: I want to go to Taco Bell on the last 45
minutes of my birthday.
MATT: Okay, let's do it. Happy birthday.
MARISHA: 45 minutes.
MATT: I love you, we're going to get Taco Bell.
TALIESIN: That is the best birthday meal.
MATT: I think so. All right guys, thank you so
much, we'll see you next week. We love you, and is
it Thursday yet? Good night.
[music]